Title: Ultimate Fighting Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ultimate_Fighting_Championship
Excerpt: The Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) is an American mixed martial arts (MMA) promotion company based in the Las Vegas, Nevada area. It is owned and operated by TKO Group Holdings, itself a majority owned subsidiary of The WME Group. The largest MMA promotion in the world, the UFC has over 578 fighters contracted that fight across 11 weight divisions (eight men's and three women's). The organization produces events worldwide and abides by the Unified Rules of Mixed Martial Arts. As of 2026, it had held over 750 events. Dana White has been its president since 2001 and CEO since 2023. Under White's stewardship, it has grown into a global multi-billion-dollar enterprise.
The UFC was founded by businessman Art Davie, martial artist Rorion Gracie, and film director John Milius, with the backing of Semaphore Entertainment Group (SEG) CEO Bob Meyrowitz, President David Isaacs, and Head of Programming Campbell McLaren. The first event was held in 1993 at McNichols Sports Arena in Denver, Colorado. The purpose of the UFC's early competitions was to identify the most effective martial art in a contest with minimal rules and no weight classes between competitors of different fighting disciplines. In subsequent events, more rigorous rules were created and fighters began adopting effective techniques from more than one discipline, which indirectly helped create a separate style of fighting known as present-day mixed martial arts.
The UFC was initially owned by SEG until it developed financial problems and was sold to the brothers Frank and Lorenzo Fertitta in 2001, who formed the company Zuffa to operate the UFC, and placed Dana White as the president of the company. In 2016, UFC's parent company, Zuffa, was sold to a group led by Endeavor, then known as William Morris Endeavor (WME–IMG), including Silver Lake Partners, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and MSD Capital for US$4.025 billion. In 2021, Endeavor bought out Zuffa's other owners for $1.7 billion.
With a TV deal and expansion in Australia, Asia, Europe, and new markets within the United States, the UFC has achieved greater mainstream media coverage. It earned US$609 million in 2015, and its previous domestic media rights agreement with ESPN was valued at $1.5 billion over a five-year term. The UFC has also purchased and absorbed rival organizations such as PRIDE Fighting Championships, World Extreme Cagefighting, and Strikeforce, consolidating much of the global MMA market under its banner.
In April 2023, Endeavor Group Holdings announced that UFC would merge with the wrestling promotion WWE to form TKO Group Holdings, a new public company majority-owned by Endeavor, with Vince McMahon serving as an executive chairman of the new entity and White remaining as UFC president. The merger was completed on September 12, 2023. In January 2024, McMahon had ended his ties with the company amid a sex trafficking scandal. In 2025, the UFC signed a 7-year, US$7.7 billion deal with Paramount Skydance (operators of CBS Sports and Paramount+) beginning the next year, exiting the pay-per-view business entirely.

Title: Royce Gracie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royce_Gracie
Excerpt: Royce Gracie (Portuguese: [ˈʁɔjsi ˈɡɾejsi]; born 12 December 1966) is a Brazilian former professional mixed martial artist. Gracie gained fame for his success in the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). He is a member of the Gracie jiu-jitsu family, a UFC Hall of Famer, and is considered to be one of the most influential figures in the history of mixed martial arts (MMA). He also competed in PRIDE Fighting Championships, K-1's MMA events, and Bellator.
In 1993 and 1994, Gracie was the tournament winner of UFC 1, UFC 2 and UFC 4, which were openweight single-elimination tournaments with minimal rules. He used his skills in submission grappling to defeat larger and heavier opponents. He was also known for his rivalry with Ken Shamrock, whom he beat in UFC 1 and then fought to a draw in the rematch for the Superfight Championship at UFC 5. Royce later competed in PRIDE Fighting Championships, where he is most remembered for his 90-minute bout against catch wrestler Kazushi Sakuraba in 2000, and a controversial "judo vs jiu-jitsu" special-rules match against Hidehiko Yoshida, an Olympic gold medalist in judo, at PRIDE Shockwave in 2002.
Royce Gracie's success in the UFC popularized Gracie jiu-jitsu (commonly referred to as "Brazilian" jiu-jitsu) and revolutionized mixed martial arts, contributing to the movement towards grappling and ground fighting. For his pioneering in mixed martial arts, Gracie was the first inductee to the UFC Hall of Fame in 2003 alongside his once-rival Ken Shamrock. He was inducted into the Martial Arts History Museum Hall of Fame in 2007, and later into the International Sports Hall of Fame in 2016.

Title: Marco Ruas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marco_Ruas
Excerpt: Marco Antônio de Lima Ruas (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈmaʁku ˈʁuɐs]; born 23 January 1961) is a Brazilian former mixed martial arts fighter, submission wrestler, kickboxer and instructor. Ruas was the UFC 7 Tournament Champion, and also competed for the World Vale Tudo Championship (WVC), PRIDE Fighting Championships and the International Fight League, where he head-coached the Southern California Condors.
Ruas is a pioneer of Mixed martial arts, having fought in a high-profile Vale Tudo bout in 1984, and later winning the UFC 7 tournament in 1995, being the second Brazilian UFC champion and fourth overall of the organization. Although he was billed as a representative of Luta Livre and thus a high-level submission grappler, he was an equally capable and skilled Muay Thai striker with experience in Capoeira, Boxing, and Taekwondo. He was able to synthesize both grappling and striking into one style, known for being one of the first proponents of cross-training to compete in mixed martial arts events, and is considered one of the first well-rounded fighters and true "mixed martial artist". This is represented by his famous quote after winning his fight in WVC 4: "If you grapple me, I punch and kick you. If you punch and kick me, I grapple you. There's no way out."
Ruas transformed his style in his own hybrid martial art which he called "Ruas Vale Tudo". In some later events, his fighting style was simply billed as "Vale Tudo".

Title: Keith Hackney
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keith_Hackney
Excerpt: Keith Hackney (born April 15, 1958) is an American retired mixed martial arts fighter. He competed in three Ultimate Fighting Championship tournaments.

Title: Joe Son
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Son
Excerpt: Joseph Hyungmin Son (Korean: 손형민; born November 20, 1970) is a convicted felony rapist, former American actor, and former UFC fighter. He competed for the Ultimate Fighting Championship and K-1 Kickboxing during his combat sports career. As an actor, he was best known for his appearance in the spy comedy film Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery (1997). In martial arts, he is best known for his appearance at UFC 4, where he lost a match by submission after repeatedly being punched in the groin by Keith Hackney, a move which was legal at the time.
In 2008, he was arrested in connection to a 1990 sexual assault after DNA evidence linked him to the crime. In 2011, he was found guilty and sentenced to seven years to life in prison in California. While incarcerated, he was convicted of beating his cell mate to death and was sentenced to an additional 27 years for voluntary manslaughter.