Title: Abolitionism
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abolitionism
Excerpt: Abolitionism, or the abolitionist movement, is the political movement to end slavery and liberate enslaved individuals around the world. It gained momentum in the western world in the late 18th and 19th centuries.
The first country to fully outlaw slavery was France in 1315, though it was later used in its colonies. The first country to abolish and punish slavery for indigenous people was Spain with the New Laws in 1542.
Under the actions of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, chattel slavery was abolished across Japan since 1590, though other forms of forced labor were used during World War II. The first and only country to self-liberate from slavery was a former French colony, Haiti, as a result of the Revolution of 1791–1804. The British abolitionist movement began in the late 18th century, and the 1772 Somersett case established that slavery did not exist in English law. In 1807, the slave trade was made illegal throughout the British Empire, though existing slaves in British colonies were not liberated until the Slavery Abolition Act 1833. In the United States,  Pennsylvania and Vermont were the first states to abolish slavery, Vermont in 1777 and Pennsylvania in 1780 (Vermont did not join the Union until 1791). By 1804, the rest of the northern states had abolished slavery, but it remained legal in southern states. By 1808, the United States outlawed the importation of slaves and in 1865 outlawed slavery except as a punishment.
In Eastern Europe, groups organized to abolish the enslavement of the Roma in Wallachia and Moldavia between 1843 and 1855, and to emancipate the serfs in Russia in 1861. The United States would pass the 13th Amendment in December 1865 after having just fought a bloody Civil War, ending slavery "except as a punishment for crime". In 1888, Brazil became the last country in the Americas to outlaw slavery. As the Empire of Japan annexed Asian countries, from the late 19th century onwards, archaic institutions including slavery were abolished in those countries.
During the 20th century, the League of Nations founded a number of commissions, Temporary Slavery Commission (1924–1926), Committee of Experts on Slavery (1932) and the Advisory Committee of Experts on Slavery (1934–1939), which conducted international investigations of the institution of slavery and created international treaties, such as the 1926 Slavery Convention, to eradicate the institution worldwide.
In 1948, slavery was declared illegal in the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights. By this time, the Arab world was the only region in the world where institutional chattel slavery was still legal. Slavery in Saudi Arabia, slavery in Yemen and slavery in Dubai were abolished in 1962–1963, with slavery in Oman following in 1970.
Mauritania is the latest country to officially abolish slavery, with a presidential decree in 1981. Today, child and adult slavery and forced labor are illegal in almost all countries, as well as being against international law, but human trafficking for labor and for sexual slavery continues to affect tens of millions of adults and children.

Title: List of slave owners
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_slave_owners
Excerpt: Each person listed here has both notability and a consensus of historical evidence of slave ownership. They are listed in alphabetical order by last name.

Title: Deadly Women
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deadly_Women
Excerpt: Deadly Women is an American true crime documentary television series produced by Beyond International Group and airing on the Investigation Discovery (ID) network.
The series focuses on murders committed by women. It is hosted by former FBI criminal profiler Candice DeLong and narrated by Lynnanne Zager.
Deadly Women was first broadcast in 2005 as a three-part miniseries under the subtitles: “Obsession”, “Greed”, and “Revenge”. It was revived as a regularly scheduled series and began airing on December 24, 2008.  Two major changes were made: Lynnanne Zager replaced original narrator Marsha Crenshaw, and the number of cases in each episode was reduced from four to three. The episodes were also recorded and presented in a widescreen format. The series was canceled in 2021 after 14 seasons.
Dubbed versions are also produced.  A Spanish-language version aired on Discovery en Español under the title Las Verdaderas Mujeres Asesinas (True Killer Women); an Italian language version airs on Real Time Italy under the title Donne mortali (a literal translation of the English title).

Title: Human trafficking
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_trafficking
Excerpt: Human trafficking is the unlawful act of entrapping, transporting, transferring, harboring, or buying human beings through force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of exploiting them for profit. This exploitation may include forced labor, sexual slavery, or other forms of commercial sexual exploitation. It is a form of modern slavery, a crime against humanity and serious violation of human rights. It is believed that human trafficking has become more common over the past two and a half decades. Efforts to combat human trafficking involve international laws, national policies, and non-governmental organizations.
Human trafficking can occur both within a single country or across national borders. It is distinct from people smuggling, which involves the consent of the individual being smuggled and typically ends upon arrival at the destination. In contrast, human trafficking involves exploitation and a lack of consent, often through force, fraud, or coercion. Human trafficking is widely condemned as a violation of human rights by international agreements such as the United Nations Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons. Despite this condemnation, legal protections and enforcement vary significantly across countries. Globally, millions of individuals, including women, men, and children, are estimated to be victims of human trafficking, enduring forced labor, sexual exploitation, and other forms of abuse.

Title: List of Deadly Women episodes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Deadly_Women_episodes
Excerpt: Deadly Women is an American documentary television series focusing on true crime, specifically female killers. It first aired in 2005 on the Discovery Channel. It was originally based on a TV documentary film called Poisonous Women, which was released in 2003. Deadly Women started as a miniseries comprising three episodes: "Obsession", "Greed", and "Revenge". After a three-year hiatus, the show resumed production in 2008 and began airing on the Investigation Discovery channel as a regularly scheduled series. The series is produced in Australia by Beyond International.