Title: Supreme Court of the United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supreme_Court_of_the_United_States
Excerpt: The Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) is the highest court in the federal judiciary of the United States. It has ultimate appellate jurisdiction over all U.S. federal court cases, and over state court cases that turn on questions of U.S. constitutional or federal law. It also has original jurisdiction over a narrow range of cases, specifically "all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, and those in which a State shall be Party". In 1803, the court asserted the power of judicial review, the ability to invalidate a statute for violating a provision of the Constitution. It is also able to strike down presidential directives for violating either the Constitution or statutory law.
Under Article Three of the United States Constitution, the composition and procedures of the Supreme Court were originally established by the 1st Congress through the Judiciary Act of 1789. As currently constituted the court consists of nine justices—the chief justice of the United States and eight associate justices—who meet at the Supreme Court Building in Washington, D.C. Justices have lifetime tenure, meaning they remain on the court until they die, retire, resign, or are impeached and removed from office. When a vacancy occurs, the president, with the advice and consent of the Senate, appoints a new justice.
Each justice has a single vote in deciding the cases argued before the court. When in the majority, the chief justice decides who writes the opinion of the court; otherwise, the most senior justice in the majority assigns the task. A justice may write an opinion in concurrence with the court, or they may write a dissent, and these concurrences or dissents may also be joined by other justices. On average, the Supreme Court receives about 7,000 petitions for writs of certiorari each year, but only grants about 80.

Title: Hugh Grant
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hugh_Grant
Excerpt: Hugh John Mungo Grant (born 9 September 1960) is an English actor. He established himself early in his career as a charming and vulnerable romantic leading man, and has since transitioned into a character actor. He has received several accolades including a British Academy Film Award and a Golden Globe Award as well as nominations for two Primetime Emmy Awards. He received an Honorary César in 2006. In 2022, Time Out magazine listed Grant as one of Britain's 50 greatest actors of all time. As of 2025, his films have grossed over US$4 billion worldwide.
Grant made his feature film acting debut in Privileged (1982), followed by the romantic drama Maurice (1987) for which he gained acclaim as well as the Volpi Cup for Best Actor. He then acted in a string of successful period dramas such as The Remains of the Day (1993), Sense and Sensibility (1995) and Restoration (1995). Grant emerged as a star with Richard Curtis's romantic comedy Four Weddings and a Funeral (1994), for which he won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Actor. He starred in further romantic comedies such as Notting Hill (1999), Bridget Jones's Diary (2001) and its 2004 and 2025 sequels, About a Boy (2002), Two Weeks Notice (2002), Love Actually (2003) and Music and Lyrics (2007).
Grant began to take against-type parts earning nominations for two BAFTA Awards for Best Supporting Actor for his roles as St. Clair Bayfield in Florence Foster Jenkins (2016) and a haughty actor in Paddington 2 (2017). He has also acted in the science fiction film Cloud Atlas (2012), the crime comedy film The Gentlemen (2019), the fantasy comedy film Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves (2023), the musical fantasy Wonka (2023), and the horror film Heretic (2024), which earned him another BAFTA nomination. He earned two nominations for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Actor for his roles as Jeremy Thorpe in the BBC miniseries A Very English Scandal (2018) and a man accused of murder in the HBO miniseries The Undoing (2020).
Grant has been outspoken about his antipathy towards the profession of acting, his disdain towards the culture of celebrity, and his hostility towards the media. He emerged as a prominent critic of the conduct of Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation during the News International phone hacking scandal.

Title: Preston Sturges
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Preston_Sturges
Excerpt: Preston Sturges (; born Edmund Preston Biden; August 29, 1898 – August 6, 1959) was an American playwright, inventor, screenwriter, and film director.
He is credited as the first screenwriter to find success as a director. Prior to Sturges, other Hollywood directors (such as Charlie Chaplin and Frank Capra) had directed films from their own scripts; however, Sturges is often regarded as the first Hollywood figure to establish success as a screenwriter and then move into directing his own scripts. He sold the story for The Great McGinty to Paramount Pictures for $10 in exchange for directing it. Anthony Lane writes that "To us, that seems old hat, one of the paths by which the ambitious get to run their own show, but back in 1940, when The Great McGinty came out, it was very new hat indeed; the opening credits proclaimed 'Written and directed by Preston Sturges,' and it was the first time in the history of talkies that the two passive verbs had appeared together onscreen. From that conjunction sprang a whole tradition of filmmaking: literate, spiky, defensive, markedly personal, and almost always funny." For that film, Sturges won the first Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay.
Sturges received Oscar nominations for The Miracle of Morgan's Creek and Hail the Conquering Hero (both 1944). He also wrote and directed The Lady Eve, Sullivan's Travels (both 1941) and The Palm Beach Story (1942), all appearing on the American Film Institute's 100 Years...100 Laughs list.
His career is chronicled in Preston Sturges: The Rise and Fall of an American Dreamer,

Title: In the Name of the Law (1922 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In_the_Name_of_the_Law_(1922_film)
Excerpt: In the Name of the Law is a 1922 American silent melodrama directed by Emory Johnson with Dick Posson acting as assistant director. FBO released the film in August 1922. The film's "All-Star" cast included Ralph Lewis, Johnnie Walker, and Claire McDowell. The cast also included Johnson and his wife, Ella Hall. Emilie Johnson, Johnson's mother, wrote both the story and screenplay. In the Name of the Law was the first picture in Johnson's eight-picture contract with FBO.
The police melodrama was about a San Francisco police officer. He was a dedicated community servant. The story depicts his struggles with the duality of dedication to duty versus devotion to family. The film was a pioneering effort in other aspects. It was a serious film about law enforcement. Movies had cinematically maligned the profession in the past. The film is also an early example of an innovative exploitation strategy. The scheme involved getting the group featured on the screen aligned with their real-life counterparts and promoting the film.

Title: List of Adventure Time characters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Adventure_Time_characters
Excerpt: The American animated television franchise Adventure Time features a cast of fictional characters created by Pendleton Ward. The first series in the franchise, Adventure Time revolves around the adventures of protagonists Finn the Human (voiced by Jeremy Shada), a teenage human boy, and his best friend Jake the Dog (voiced by John DiMaggio), a dog with magical powers to change shape and grow and shrink at will. Finn and Jake live in the post-apocalyptic Land of Ooo, where they travel on various adventures. Along the way, they interact with the other main characters of the show: Princess Bubblegum (voiced by Hynden Walch), the Ice King, Simon Petrikov (voiced by Tom Kenny), and Marceline the Vampire Queen (voiced by Olivia Olson). The second series Distant Lands, follow these characters along with the Peppermint Butler "Pep" (voiced by Steve Little), while Fionna and Cake follows Fionna Campbell (voiced by Madeleine Martin), Cake the Cat (voiced by Roz Ryan), Prismo the Wishmaster (voiced by Sean Rohani), Gary Prince (voiced by Andrew Rannells), Marshall Lee (voiced by Donald Glover), and the Scarab (voiced by Kayleigh McKee), along with a returning Kenny as Simon Petrikov.
This list only includes the main characters of the show, as well as major recurring characters (otherwise known as supporting characters) who are featured across several episodes of the series. Characters which are credited as guest stars or one-off characters are not included.