Title: List of 2010 Summer Youth Olympics medal winners
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_2010_Summer_Youth_Olympics_medal_winners
Excerpt: The 2010 Summer Youth Olympics, the inaugural event of its kind, were celebrated in Singapore from 14 to 26 August 2010. A total of 3,531 athletes between 14 and 18 years of age from 204 National Olympic Committees (NOCs) participated at the Games in 201 events in 26 sports.
A number of new events were held, including mixed-gender swimming relays, a single combined mixed-gender cycling event, and a number of mixed-NOCs team events. To foster friendship among participants, teams were formed by athletes from different countries to compete, often on an intercontinental basis. There were such events included in archery, athletics, equestrian, fencing, judo, modern pentathlon, table tennis, and triathlon, and a number of pairs in doubles tennis were formed by athletes from two different NOCs. In addition, some traditional events at the main Olympic Games were modified, most notably in basketball, which was contested according to FIBA 33 rules.
A total of 623 medals for events (202 gold, 200 silver and 221 bronze) were awarded; in judo and taekwondo two bronzes were awarded per event. Therefore, the total number of bronze medals is greater than the total number of gold or silver medals. Additionally there were ties for a gold medal and a bronze medal, both in swimming. On 15 October 2010 the IOC announced that an Uzbek silver medallist had failed a drugs test and had been disqualified, but no immediate decision was taken on whether to promote the next two athletes.
Athletes representing China won the most gold medals (not counting mixed-NOCs events) with 30, and also won the most medals overall with 51. Athletes from 98 countries won medals at the Games. The most decorated athlete at these Games was Tang Yi, who won six gold medals in swimming.

Title: On the Street
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_the_Street
Excerpt: "On the Street" (stylized in lowercase) is a song by South Korean rapper J-Hope of BTS and American rapper J. Cole. It was released as a digital single through Big Hit Music on March 3, 2023. A lofi hip hop track, the song was written by J-Hope, Cole, and Pdogg, who also served as producer. Lyrically the song is an ode to J-Hope's artistic roots and the intersection of his love for street dance and hip hop. Cole's verse follows a similar theme, detailing his journey as an artist and the evolution of his craft. An accompanying music video shows J-Hope walking and dancing through the streets of New York City then in the Bowery subway station while Cole is seen standing and dancing on the rooftop of a city building.
Described as a "gift" to his fans, the single marked J-Hope's final music release before he began his mandatory military service in April 2023. A solo version of the song without Cole was released in March 2024, as part of J-Hope's first extended play Hope on the Street Vol. 1 (2024).

Title: Cultural impact of Taylor Swift
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultural_impact_of_Taylor_Swift
Excerpt: The American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift has influenced popular culture, music, and economics with her artistry, performances, image, politics, fashion, ideas, and actions, collectively referred to as the Taylor Swift effect by publications. Debuting as a 16-year-old independent singer-songwriter in 2006, Swift steadily amassed fame, success, and public curiosity in her career, becoming a global monocultural figure.
Often described as one of the most prominent celebrities of the 21st century, Swift is recognized for her versatile musicality, songwriting prowess, and business acuity that have inspired artists and entrepreneurs worldwide. She began in country music, ventured into pop, and explored electronic, folk, and rock styles, blurring music genre boundaries. Critics describe her as a cultural quintessence with a rare combination of chart success, critical acclaim, and intense fan support, resulting in her wide impact on and beyond the music industry.
From the end of the album era to the rise of the Internet, Swift drove the evolution of music distribution, perception, and consumption across the 2000s, 2010s, and 2020s, and has used social media to spotlight issues within the industry and society at large. Wielding strong economic and political leverage, she prompted reforms to recording, streaming, and distribution structures for greater artists' rights, increased awareness of creative ownership in terms of masters and intellectual property, and has led the vinyl revival. Her consistent commercial success is considered unprecedented by journalists, with simultaneous achievements in album sales, digital sales, streaming, airplay, vinyl sales, record charts, and touring. Bloomberg Businessweek stated Swift is "The Music Industry", one of her many honorific sobriquets. Billboard described Swift as "an advocate, a style icon, a marketing wiz, a prolific songwriter, a pusher of visual boundaries and a record-breaking road warrior". Her album promotional cycles, known as "eras", have influenced mass media trends and culminated in the Eras Tour (2023–2024), which made its own impact.
Swift is a subject of academic research, media studies, and cultural analysis, generally focused on concepts of poptimism, feminism, capitalism, internet culture, celebrity culture, consumerism, Americanism, post-postmodernism, and other sociomusicological phenomena. Academic institutions offer various courses on her. Scholars have variably attributed Swift's dominant cultural presence to her musical sensibility, artistic integrity, global engagement, intergenerational appeal, public image, and marketing acumen. Several authors have used the adjective "Swiftian" to describe works reminiscent of or derivative of Swift.

Title: Born Again (Lisa song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Born_Again_(Lisa_song)
Excerpt: "Born Again" is a song by Thai rapper and singer Lisa featuring American rapper and singer Doja Cat and British singer-songwriter Raye. It was released through Lloud and RCA Records on February 6, 2025, as the fourth single from Lisa's debut studio album, Alter Ego (2025). A pop song incorporating disco and electropop elements, it was written by its producers Raye and Andrew Wells as well as Doja Cat and Anthony Rossomando. It is a post-breakup empowerment anthem in which the artists reflect on a failed relationship.
Music critics praised "Born Again" as a standout album opener due to its dynamic production and the artists' vocals. The song debuted at number one on the Official Thailand Chart, becoming Lisa's first chart-topper in her native country. In the United Kingdom, it peaked at number 13 on the UK Singles Chart and was certified silver by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI). The song peaked at number 22 on the Billboard Global 200 and became Lisa's fifth and highest-charting entry on the US Billboard Hot 100 at number 68. It also reached the top twenty in some Asian countries and the top seventy in some European and Oceanian countries, including Germany, Australia, Canada, Ireland and France.
An accompanying music video was directed by Bardia Zeinali and released on Lloud's YouTube channel simultaneously with the single's release. The video pays tribute to powerful women throughout history and depicts the three artists singing in mourning attire before transitioning into medieval warriors, symbolizing their personal growth. Lisa performed "Born Again" at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival and appeared at the 97th Academy Awards with Doja Cat and Raye. The song won Best K-Pop at the 2025 MTV Video Music Awards, making Lisa tied as the most-awarded artist in the category.

Title: Abracadabra (Lady Gaga song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abracadabra_(Lady_Gaga_song)
Excerpt: "Abracadabra" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Lady Gaga for her studio album, Mayhem (2025). It was written and produced by Gaga, Andrew Watt, and Cirkut, with additional songwriting credits to members of Siouxsie and the Banshees, as it incorporates elements from their 1981 single "Spellbound". Musically, it is a dance, dance-pop, electropop, synth-pop, and acid techno track with electronic, industrial, house, and psychedelic influences. The song's lyrics, according to Gaga, reflect on facing life's challenges and finding a sense of magic in them. "Abracadabra" was released through Interscope Records on February 3, 2025, as the album's second single.
An accompanying music video, co-directed by Gaga, Parris Goebel, and Bethany Vargas, depicts a dance battle between two contrasting personas of the singer and premiered on February 3, following a teaser which aired during a commercial break at the 67th Annual Grammy Awards. Critics praised its theatrical style and cinematography, drawing favorable comparisons to her earlier work. Gaga performed "Abracadabra" on Saturday Night Live, The Howard Stern Show, the MTV Video Music Awards 2025 and the 2026 Grammy Awards. She also sang it as part of the opening act for some concerts promoting Mayhem, including during the Mayhem Ball tour, and incorporated a remix of the track by French producer Gesaffelstein as a show interlude, which was released on digital platforms. Gaga also performed a reimagined version of the song for Mayhem Requiem.
"Abracadabra" received critical acclaim, with reviewers praising its production, rhythm, songwriting and chorus, and various critics ranked it among the best songs of 2025. Commercially, the song topped the charts in Hungary and Lithuania, while reaching the top ten in Austria, Brazil, Croatia, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and on the Billboard Global 200. "Abracadabra" also charted within the top twenty in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, France, New Zealand, the Philippines, Taiwan, the United Arab Emirates, and the United States. It also received diamond certifications in Brazil and France as well as platinum certifications in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, Greece, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, and the United Kingdom. At the 68th Annual Grammy Awards, "Abracadabra" was nominated for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, Best Dance Pop Recording, and—for its Gesaffelstein remix—Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical, winning the latter two.