Title: India
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/India
Excerpt: India, officially the Republic of India, is a country in South Asia.  It is the world's seventh-largest country by area and the largest by population. Bounded by the Indian Ocean on the south, the Arabian Sea on the southwest, and the Bay of Bengal on the southeast, it shares land borders with Pakistan to the west; China, Nepal, and Bhutan to the north; and Bangladesh and Myanmar to the east. In the Indian Ocean, India is near Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
Modern humans arrived on the Indian subcontinent from Africa by 55,000 years ago. Their long, isolated occupation as hunter-gatherers made the region highly diverse. Settled life emerged on the western margins of the Indus basin 9,000 years ago, evolving into the Indus Valley Civilisation by the third millennium BCE. By 1200 BCE, an archaic form of Sanskrit had diffused into India from the northwest, its hymns recording the early dawnings of Hinduism. India's pre-existing Dravidian languages were supplanted in the northern regions. By 400 BCE, social differentiation by caste had consolidated within Hinduism. Contemporarily, Buddhism and Jainism had arisen, proclaiming social orders unlinked to heredity. The emergence of the loose-knit Maurya and Gupta Empires, gave rise to wide-ranging cultural and scientific creativity, but their eras also witnessed a steady erosion of women's rights, and, by the end, the rigid institutionalisation of untouchability. Concurrently accross the first millennium CE, the Middle kingdoms of South India transmitted Dravidian language scripts and cultures to Southeast Asia. Well before the millennium's end, Judaism, Christianity, Islam and Zoroastrianism had become established on India's southern and western coasts.
Early in the 2nd millennium, Muslim armies from Central Asia intermittently overran India's northern plaints, eventually establishing the Delhi Sultanate, and drawing India into the cosmopolitan networks of medieval Islam. The Vijayanagara Empire created a long-lasting composite South Indian culture. Sikhism emerged in the Punjab, rejecting institutionalised religion. The Mughal Empire ushered in two centuries of economic expansion and relative peace, leaving a rich architectural legacy. Gradually expanding rule of the British East India Company turned India into a colonial economy but consolidated its sovereignty. British Crown rule began in 1858. The rights promised to Indians were granted slowly, but technological changes were introduced, and modern education and the public life took root. A nationalist movement emerged in India, the first in the non-European British Empire. Noted for nonviolent resistance after 1920, it became the primary factor in ending British rule. In 1947, the British Indian Empire was partitioned into two independent dominions, a Hindu-majority dominion of India and a Muslim-majority dominion of Pakistan. A large-scale loss of life and an unprecedented migration accompanied the partition.
Since 1950, India has been a federal republic, governed through a democratic parliamentary system. It is a pluralistic, multilingual and multi-ethnic society. India's population grew from 361 million in 1951 to over 1.4 billion in 2023. Its fast-growing economy is a hub for information technology, with an expanding middle class. India has reduced poverty, though alongside increasing economic inequality. It is a nuclear-weapon state, with high military expenditure, and holds unresolved mid-20th-century disputes over Kashmir with its neighbours, Pakistan and China. Socio-economic challenges include gender inequality, child malnutrition, and rising air pollution. India's megadiverse land features four biodiversity hotspots. Its wildlife is supported in protected habitats and traditionally viewed with cultural tolerance.

Title: Education in India
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Education_in_India
Excerpt: Education in India is primarily managed through the state-run public education system, which falls under the command of the government at three levels: central, state, and local. Under various articles of the Indian Constitution and the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, free and compulsory education is provided as a fundamental right to children aged 6 to 14. Educational access and quality vary significantly based on factors such as location (urban or rural), gender, caste, language, and socioeconomic status.
Schooling is divided into four main levels: primary education, secondary education, higher education, and vocational education, and can be completed in publicly funded or private schools. The approximate ratio of the total number of public schools to private schools in India is 10:3.
Issues including grade inflation, corruption, fraudulent institutions, and poor employment prospects frequently affect students in India. Half of all graduates in India are considered unemployable. It has also been argued that this system has been associated with an emphasis on rote learning and external perspectives.
English is used as a major medium of instruction in higher education, however is often poorly taught due to the lack of proficient English-speaking teachers, placing underprivileged students at a disadvantage in higher education and professional domains.

Title: St Martin-in-the-Fields
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St_Martin-in-the-Fields
Excerpt: St Martin-in-the-Fields is a Church of England parish church at the north-east corner of Trafalgar Square in the City of Westminster, London. Dedicated in honour of Saint Martin of Tours, there has been a church on the site since at least the medieval period. This location, at that time, was farmlands and fields beyond the London wall.
St Martin's became a principal parish church west of the old City in the early modern period as Westminster's population grew. When its medieval and Jacobean structure was found to be near failure, the present building was constructed in an influential neoclassical design by James Gibbs in 1722–1726. The church is one of the visual anchors adding to the open-urban space around Trafalgar Square.

Title: St. Xavier's College, Mumbai
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._Xavier%27s_College,_Mumbai
Excerpt: St. Xavier's College is a private, Catholic college run by the Jesuits of the Bombay Province in Mumbai, Maharashtra, India. It was founded on 2 January 1869. The college is affiliated with the University of Mumbai and offers undergraduate and postgraduate courses in Arts, Science, Commerce and Management. Xavier's was the first college to be granted autonomy by the University of Mumbai in 2010. In 2006, St. Xavier's was awarded the 'A+' grade by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC).
The college is named after Francis Xavier, the 16th-Century Spanish Jesuit saint. Its campus in South Mumbai is built in the Indo-Gothic style of architecture, and recognized as a heritage structure. Founded by German Jesuits in 1869, Xavier's developed rapidly from 1884 to 1914. The imprisonment of German Jesuit priests during the First World War (1914–1918) led to a dislocation of the administration, which was mitigated by the appointment of other European Jesuits. The college began as an arts institution but by the 1920s had science departments as well. The college was greatly expanded in the 1930s.
The college is now run by Indian Jesuits, with a distinct focus on affirmative action for minority students. It offers undergraduate and post-graduate courses in Arts, Science, Business, Commerce and Public Policy. It is known for its famous inter-collegiate youth event 'Malhar Fest'.

Title: Christianity in India
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christianity_in_India
Excerpt: Christianity is India's third-largest religion with 28 million adherents, who make up 2.3 percent of the population, according to the 2011 census. Nearly two-thirds (65 percent) of India's Christians are found in South India, Goa and Mumbai (Bombay). Christianity is the major religion in parts of Northeast India, specifically in Nagaland, Mizoram and Meghalaya. Christians are also a significant plurality in Manipur.
The written records of St Thomas Christians mention that Christianity was introduced to the Indian subcontinent by Thomas the Apostle, who sailed to the Malabar region (present-day Kerala) in 52 AD. The writings of Eusebius of Caesarea and of Jerome record that Bartholomew the Apostle evangelised India, particularly in the Konkan. The Acts of Thomas say that the early Christians were Malabar Jews who had settled in what is present-day Kerala before the birth of Christ. St Thomas, an Aramaic-speaking Jew from Galilee (present-day Israel) and one of the disciples of Jesus Christ, came to India in search of Indian Jews. After years of evangelism, Thomas was martyred and then buried at St Thomas Mount, in the Mylapore neighbourhood of Madras (Chennai). Ambrose of Milan, in his commentary on the Psalms, noted that Thomas the Apostle preached the Gospel to the Indian people. There is the scholarly consensus that a Christian community, had firmly established in the Malabar region by 600 AD at the latest; the community was composed of Nestorians or Eastern Christians, who belonged to the Church of the East and used the East Syriac Rite of worship.
Following the discovery of the sea route to India, by the Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama in the 15th century AD, Western Christianity was established in the European colonies of Goa, Tranquebar, Bombay, Madras and Pondicherry; as in Catholicism (of Latin or Syriac Rites) and various kinds of Protestantism. The Church of North India and the Church of South India are a United Protestant denomination; which resulted from the evangelism/ ecumenism of Anglicans, Calvinists, Methodists and other Protestant groups who flourished in colonial India. Consequently, these churches are part of the worldwide Anglican Communion, World Communion of Reformed Churches, and World Methodist Council.  Christian missionaries introduced the western educational system to the Indian subcontinent, to preach Christianity and to campaign for Hindu social reforms like the Channar revolt. The oldest known Christian group in North India are the Hindustani-speaking Bettiah Christians of Bihar, formed in the early 1700s through a Capuchin mission and under the patronage of the Bettiah Rajas during the Moghal Empire.  Along with native Christians, small numbers of mixed Eurasian peoples, such as Anglo-Indian, Luso-Indian, Franco-Indian and Armenian Indian Christians also existed. Also, there is the Hindu Khrista Bhakta movement, who are unbaptised followers of Jesus Christ and St Mary, mainly among Shudras and Dalits.
Christians were involved in the Indian National Congress (INC), which led the Indian independence movement, the All India Conference of Indian Christians advocated for swaraj (self rule) and opposed the partition of India. There are reports of crypto-Christians who keep their faith in secret or hiding, due to the fear of persecution; especially Dalit (Outcaste) or Adivasi (Aboriginal) Christians resort to crypsis, because reservation and other rights are denied on conversion. Some Christians have gone through reconversion to Hinduism by Hindu extremists, such as Shiv Sena (SS), the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Various groups of Hindu extremists have also attacked churches, or disrupted church services in certain states and territories of India. Convent schools and charities are being targeted under the Modi administration, particularly by banning missionaries from getting donations from abroad, while anti-Christian and pro-hindutva groups have been raising foreign funds.