Title: May Company California
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/May_Company_California
Excerpt: May Company California was an American department store chain founded in 1881 as A. Hamburger & Sons by Asher Hamburger. It was renamed after its acquisition by The May Department Stores Company in 1923. Its flagship store and headquarters were located in Los Angeles, and operated throughout Southern California. It is well-known for its flagship store in downtown Los Angeles and branch store at Wilshire Boulevard and Fairfax Avenue, the latter of which has been featured in several vintage films. The 1926 garage building at 9th Street and Hill Street was one of the first parking structures in the United States, and is a Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monument.
May Company California briefly operated in Nevada when Goldwater's was merged into May Company California and its Las Vegas store was converted. May Company California and J. W. Robinson's were merged and individually dissolved to form Robinsons-May in 1993.

Title: Laurene Powell Jobs
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laurene_Powell_Jobs
Excerpt: Laurene Powell Jobs (née Powell; born November 6, 1963) is an American entrepreneur, business executive and philanthropist. She is the founder and president of Emerson Collective, lead investor and chair of The Atlantic and co-founder and chair of XQ Institute. Powell Jobs also sits on the boards of the Ford Foundation, Council on Foreign Relations, Chicago CRED, College Track and Elemental Impact. She is the widow of Steve Jobs, who was the co-founder and former chief executive of Apple Inc, to whom she was married for twenty years.

Title: The Founder
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Founder
Excerpt: The Founder is a 2016 biographical drama film directed by John Lee Hancock and written by Robert Siegel. Starring Michael Keaton as businessman Ray Kroc, the film depicts the story of his creation of the McDonald's fast-food restaurant chain, which eventually involved forcing out the company's founders to take control of the company and begin operation under a profit-focused business model. Nick Offerman and John Carroll Lynch co-star as McDonald's founders Richard and Maurice McDonald, alongside Linda Cardellini as Ray Kroc's third wife Joan Smith, and B. J. Novak as McDonald's president and chief executive Harry J. Sonneborn.
The film premiered at Arclight Hollywood on December 7, 2016, and was released theatrically in the United States on January 20, 2017, by the Weinstein Company. It grossed $24 million worldwide and received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised the performances of Keaton and Offerman.

Title: The Boring Company
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Boring_Company
Excerpt: The Boring Company (TBC) is an American infrastructure, tunnel construction service, and equipment company founded by Elon Musk. TBC was founded as a subsidiary of SpaceX in 2017, and was spun off as a separate corporation in 2018. TBC has completed multiple test tunnels and one tunneling project that is open to the public.
In 2018, TBC completed one test tunnel in Los Angeles County, California. In 2021, TBC completed the Las Vegas Convention Center (LVCC) Loop, a three-station transportation system with 1.7 miles (2.7 km) of tunnels. As of April 2024, a segment to Resorts World Las Vegas is also open, and tunnels to Encore and Westgate resorts are being finalized. The system is planned to expand to a total of 68 miles (109 km) of tunnels. In October 2025, TBC began trialing self-driving vehicles with a safety driver on one section of the Las Vegas Loop.
Many other TBC projects in cities across the United States were announced, but subsequently became inactive or were canceled.

Title: Sean Miyashiro
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sean_Miyashiro
Excerpt: Sean Miyashiro (born May 28, 1981 in San Jose, California) is an American record producer, founder and CEO of an Asian-American music company 88rising.