Title: Jim Thompson (writer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Thompson_(writer)
Excerpt: James Myers Thompson (September 27, 1906 – April 7, 1977) was an American novelist and screenwriter, known for his hardboiled crime fiction.
Thompson wrote more than 30 novels, the majority of which were original paperback publications, published from the late-1940s through mid-1950s. Despite some positive critical notice—notably by Anthony Boucher in The New York Times—he was little-recognized in his lifetime. Only after death did Thompson's literary stature grow. In the late 1980s, several of his novels were re-published in the Black Lizard series of re-discovered crime fiction.
His best-regarded works include The Killer Inside Me, Savage Night, A Hell of a Woman and Pop. 1280. In these works, Thompson turned the derided crime genre into literature and art, featuring unreliable narrators, odd structure, and the quasi-surrealistic inner narratives of the last thoughts of his dying or dead characters. A number of Thompson's books were adapted as popular films, including The Getaway and The Grifters.
The writer Ronald Verlin Cassill has suggested that of all crime fiction, Thompson's was the rawest and most harrowing; that neither Dashiell Hammett nor Raymond Chandler nor Horace McCoy ever "wrote a book within miles of Thompson". Similarly, in the introduction to Now and on Earth, Stephen King says he most admires Thompson's work because "The guy was over the top. The guy was absolutely over the top. Big Jim didn't know the meaning of the word stop. There are three brave 'lets' inherent in the foregoing: He let himself see everything, he let himself write it down, then he let himself publish it."
Thompson was called a "Dimestore Dostoevsky" by writer Geoffrey O'Brien. Film director Stephen Frears, who directed an adaptation of Thompson's The Grifters in 1990, also identified elements of Greek tragedy in his themes.

Title: If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/If_I_Did_It:_Confessions_of_the_Killer
Excerpt: If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer is a book authored by O. J. Simpson with ghostwriter Pablo Fenjves, in which Simpson puts forth a hypothetical description of the 1994 murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman. According to Fenjves, the book is based on extensive discussions with Simpson. Simpson was acquitted of the murders in a criminal trial but later was found financially liable in a civil trial. Although the original release of the book was canceled shortly after it was announced in November 2006, 400,000 physical copies of the original book were printed, and copies of it had been leaked online by June 2007.
The book was originally due to be published by ReganBooks, an imprint of HarperCollins, which was headed by editor and publisher Judith Regan. Television network Fox, at the time a sister to HarperCollins via News Corporation, was to broadcast an interview special with Simpson to promote the book, O.J. Simpson: If I Did It, Here's How It Happened. However, the special was also canceled following objections by several Fox station owners. Footage from the interview was aired for the first time during a Fox special, O.J. Simpson: The Lost Confession?, in March 2018.
In August 2007, a Florida bankruptcy court awarded the rights to the book to the Goldman family to partially satisfy the civil judgment. The book's title was changed from If I Did It to If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer, and this version was published by Beaufort Books, a New York City publishing house owned by parent company Kampmann & Company/Midpoint Trade Books. Comments were added to the original manuscript by the Goldman family, Fenjves, and journalist Dominick Dunne. The new cover design printed the word "If" greatly reduced in size compared with the other words, and placed inside the word "I", so unless looked at very closely, the title of the book appears to read "I Did It: Confessions of the Killer".

Title: John Curran (director)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Curran_(director)
Excerpt: John Curran (born September 11, 1960) is an American film director and screenwriter.

Title: Where's the Rest of Me?
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Where%27s_the_Rest_of_Me%3F
Excerpt: Where's the Rest of Me? was the first autobiography of Ronald Reagan. Published in 1965, the book covers Reagan's youth, his career in radio, Hollywood and television and his evolving political views.

Title: Jessica Knoll
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jessica_Knoll
Excerpt: Jessica Knoll is an American magazine editor, novelist and screenwriter. Her books include Luckiest Girl Alive (2015), The Favorite Sister (2018) and Bright Young Women (2023).