Title: Queen (band)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen_(band)
Excerpt: Queen  are  a British rock band formed in London in 1970 by Freddie Mercury (lead vocals, piano), Brian May (guitar, vocals), and Roger Taylor (drums, vocals), later joined by John Deacon (bass). Their earliest works were influenced by progressive rock, hard rock and heavy metal, but the band gradually ventured into more conventional and radio-friendly works by incorporating further styles, such as arena rock and pop rock.
Before forming Queen, May and Taylor had played together in the band Smile. Mercury was a fan of Smile and encouraged them to experiment with more elaborate stage and recording techniques. He joined in 1970 and suggested the name "Queen". Deacon was recruited in February 1971, before the band released their self-titled debut album in 1973. Queen first charted in the UK with their second album, Queen II, in 1974. Sheer Heart Attack later that year and A Night at the Opera in 1975 brought them international success. The latter featured "Bohemian Rhapsody", which topped the UK singles chart for nine weeks and helped popularise the music video format. The band's 1977 album News of the World contained "We Will Rock You" and "We Are the Champions", which have become anthems at sporting events. By the early 1980s, Queen were one of the biggest stadium rock bands in the world. "Another One Bites the Dust" from The Game (1980) became their best-selling single, and their 1981 compilation album Greatest Hits is the best-selling album in the UK and has been certified 9× Platinum in the US by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Their performance at the 1985 Live Aid concert is ranked among the greatest in rock history by various publications. In August 1986, Mercury gave his last performance with Queen at Knebworth, England.
Mercury was diagnosed with AIDS in 1987. The band released two more albums: The Miracle in 1989 and Innuendo in 1991. On 23 November 1991, Mercury publicly revealed his AIDS diagnosis, and the next day died of bronchopneumonia, a complication of AIDS. One more album was released featuring Mercury's vocals, 1995's Made in Heaven. Deacon retired in 1997, while May and Taylor continued to make sporadic appearances together. Since 2004, they have toured as "Queen +", with vocalists Paul Rodgers (until 2009) and Adam Lambert (since 2011).
Queen have been a global presence in popular culture for more than half a century. Estimates of their record sales range from 250 million to 300 million, making them one of the world's best-selling music artists. In 1990, Queen received the Brit Award for Outstanding Contribution to British Music. They were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2001, and with each member having composed hit singles, all four were inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2003. In 2005, they received the Ivor Novello Award for Outstanding Song Collection from the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers, and Authors. In 2018, they were presented the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award, and they were awarded the Polar Music Prize in 2025.

Title: Disneyland Paris
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disneyland_Paris
Excerpt: Disneyland Paris is an entertainment resort in Marne-la-Vallée, France, located about 32 kilometres (20 miles) east of the city centre of Paris. It encompasses two theme parks, seven Disney-owned hotels, two convention centers, a golf course, an arena, and a shopping, dining and entertainment complex. Opened on 12 April 1992, the resort is operated by Disney Experiences, a division of the Walt Disney Company.  
It is the second Disney park outside the United States, following the opening of the Tokyo Disney Resort in 1983. Disneyland Paris is the only Disney resort outside of the United States to be completely owned by the company. Disneyland Park, opened in 1992, is the original theme park of the complex. A second theme park, Disney Adventure World (then known as Walt Disney Studios Park), opened in 2002. 
The resort is located on approximately 2,100 hectares (5,200 acres) of land which is being developed under a master agreement with French governmental authorities. About half of the land has been developed, including a planned community, Val d'Europe. 
Disneyland Paris is Europe's most-visited theme park, and the largest single-site employer in France with 17,000 employees. It generated $343 million in profit for Disney in 2023. By 2022, 375 million people had visited the park.

Title: BBC Television Shakespeare
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BBC_Television_Shakespeare
Excerpt: The BBC Television Shakespeare is a series of British television adaptations of the plays of William Shakespeare, created by Cedric Messina and broadcast by BBC Television. Transmitted in the UK from 3 December 1978 to 27 April 1985, the series spanned seven seasons and thirty-seven episodes.
Development began in 1975 when Messina saw that the grounds of Glamis Castle would make a perfect location for an adaptation of Shakespeare's As You Like It for the Play of the Month series. Upon returning to London, however, he had come to envision an entire series devoted exclusively to the dramatic works of Shakespeare. When he encountered a less than enthusiastic response from the BBC's departmental heads, Messina bypassed the usual channels and took his idea directly to the top of the BBC hierarchy, who greenlighted the show. Experiencing financial, logistical and creative problems in the early days of production, Messina persevered and served as executive producer for two years. When he was replaced by Jonathan Miller at the start of season three, the show experienced something of a creative renaissance as strictures on the directors' interpretations of the plays were loosened, a policy continued under Shaun Sutton, who took over as executive producer for seasons five, six and seven. By the end of its run, the series had proved both a ratings and a financial success.
Initially, the adaptations received generally negative reviews, although the reception improved somewhat as the series went on, and directors were allowed more freedom, leading to interpretations becoming more daring. Several episodes are now held in high esteem, particularly some of the traditionally lesser-known and less frequently staged plays. The complete set is a popular collection, and several episodes represent the only non-theatrical production of the particular play currently available on DVD. From 26 May 2020, all 37 plays became available to stream in North America via BritBox. As of May 2025, they were no longer available on Britbox.

Title: List of Christmas films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Christmas_films
Excerpt: Many Christmas stories have been adapted to feature films and TV specials, and have been broadcast and repeated many times on television. Since the popularization of home video in the 1980s, these films are sold and re-sold every year during the holiday shopping season. Many television networks, film studios, and production companies, such as cable television channels Hallmark and Lifetime, produce and release new Christmas-themed films every year during or around December, all with variations of similar plots and themes. Additionally, films revolving around the Nativity story of Christmas are regularly produced such as The Nativity Story (2006) and The Star (2017).
One film that has become the flashpoint for "Is this a Christmas movie or not?" debates is Die Hard (1988), with some viewing the film as a Christmas movie intertwined with an action genre setting or a film that is simply set around the Christmas and holiday season.

Title: Adele in Munich
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adele_in_Munich
Excerpt: Adele in Munich was the second concert residency by English singer Adele. Organised to support her 2021 album 30, the residency was held in a temporary venue on the fairgrounds within the Munich Messe (German: Messe München) complex on the outskirts of Munich, Germany, in 2024. The Weekends with Adele series was originally the only residency planned after the release of 30. However, concert promoter Klaus Leutgeb approached Adele's agent with a rudimentary idea for a performance in Germany and enlisted the help of his peer, Marek Lieberberg. Florian Wieder conceptualised the idea and designed a temporary open-air venue to provide an immersive environment for the audience.
Adele Arena, a stadium-sized concert venue with an amphitheatre layout designed to meet her needs, was exclusively intended for her performances. The stage was equipped with a 220-metre-long, 4,159.7-square-metre curved LED video screen, costing €40 million, which enabled Adele to connect more intimately with her audience. It set a Guinness World Record for the largest temporary outdoor LED video screen. The expansive stage space and 250-ton main stage equipment were installed within the largest temporary capacity ever constructed for an arena and stadium. The pyrotechnic system and the audio and lighting setups were customised according to the Adele Arena's specific characteristics. The stadium was surrounded by a vast British–German-style theme park, Adele World, featuring food and beverage offerings, amusement rides, personal memorabilia on display, and an additional stage for opening acts and Late Night Karaoke. A typical Adele set list comprised twenty songs, plus an interlude.
The concert residency spanned 10 dates, comprising two weekly performances, from 2 to 31 August 2024. Although the venue's gigantism left some journalists perplexed, the event and Adele's performance were generally well received. Adele set a new total attendance record at Munich Messe, attracting more than 730,000 people. The Munich performances recorded the highest attendance for any concert residency outside Las Vegas over 10 consecutive dates. It also set a new Billboard Boxscore attendance record for a concert engagement. According to Peter Ackermann of Neue Zürcher Zeitung, Adele earned about US$50 million. Audience spending generated more than half a billion euros for the Munich economy, and the residency increased tourism and had a positive economic impact on the region. Journalists highlighted the impact of this custom-built temporary venue on the "music business", with Adele setting "new standards for the international industry".