Title: Michel Foucault
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michel_Foucault
Excerpt: Paul-Michel Foucault, known as Michel Foucault, (UK:  FOO-koh, US:  foo-KOH; French: [pɔl miʃɛl fuko]; 15 October 1926 – 25 June 1984) was a French philosopher, literary critic, and historian of ideas who analyzed the relationships between power, knowledge, and liberty, and how they are used as a form of social control through institutions. Sometimes called a structuralist or postmodernist, he rejected these labels and sought to critique authority without limiting himself. His thought has influenced academics in many areas of study, including anthropology, communication studies, criminology, cultural studies, feminism, literary theory, psychology, and sociology. His arguments against homophobia, racial prejudice, and other ideological doctrines have also shaped scholarship on critical theory and Marxism.
Born in Poitiers, France, into an upper-middle-class family, Foucault was educated at the Lycée Henri-IV, at the École Normale Supérieure, developing an interest in philosophy and coming under the influence of his tutors Jean Hyppolite and Louis Althusser. At the University of Paris (Sorbonne), he earned degrees in philosophy and psychology. After several years as a cultural diplomat abroad, he returned to France and published his first major book, The History of Madness (1961). While working at the University of Clermont-Ferrand (1960–66), he produced The Birth of the Clinic (1963) and The Order of Things (1966), which have a structuralist affinity from which he later distanced himself. These first three histories exemplified "archeology", a historiographical technique he was developing.
Foucault lectured at the University of Tunis (1966–68), before returning to France, becoming head of the philosophy department at the new experimental university of Paris VIII, and publishing The Archaeology of Knowledge (1969). He was admitted to the Collège de France (1970), a membership he retained until his death. He also became active in several left-wing groups involved in anti-racist human rights campaigns, including penal reform. He later published Discipline and Punish (1975) and The History of Sexuality (1976), developing archaeological and genealogical methods that emphasize the role power plays in society.
Foucault died in Paris from complications of HIV/AIDS. He became the first public figure in France to die from complications of the disease, with his charisma and career influence changing mass awareness of the pandemic and influencing HIV/AIDS activism. His partner, Daniel Defert, founded the AIDES charity in his memory.

Title: Sciences Po
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sciences_Po
Excerpt: Sciences Po (French pronunciation: [sjɑ̃s po]) or Sciences Po Paris, formally known as the Paris Institute of Political Studies (French: Institut d'études politiques de Paris), is a public research university located in Paris, France, which holds the status of grande école and the legal status of grand établissement. The university's undergraduate program is taught on the Paris campus as well as on the decentralized campuses in Dijon, Le Havre, Menton, Nancy, Poitiers and Reims, each with their own academic program focused on a geopolitical part of the world. While Sciences Po historically specialized in political science, it progressively expanded to  other social sciences such as economics, law, and sociology.
The school was established in 1872 by Émile Boutmy as the École libre des sciences politiques in the aftermath of the Franco-Prussian War as a private institution to form a new French elite that would be knowledgeable in political science, law, and history. It was a pioneer in the emergence and development of political science as an academic field in France. Following World War II, the school was nationalized and re-established as a public institution. As of 2021, 80% of Sciences Po graduates are employed in the private sector.
Sciences Po Paris is the only Institute of Political Sciences in France allowed to refer to itself with the epithet "Sciences Po" without indicating the name of the city where their headquarters are located, under a legal agreement with the other institutes. They are allowed to use the term "Sciences Po" to refer to themselves only when followed by the names of the cities where they are located, such as "Sciences Po Lille" or "Sciences Po Grenoble."
The institute is a member of the Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs and The European University of Social Sciences.

Title: Aix-Marseille University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aix-Marseille_University
Excerpt: Aix-Marseille University (AMU; French: Aix-Marseille Université; formally incorporated as Université d'Aix-Marseille) is a public research university located in the Provence region of southern France. It was founded in 1409 when Louis II of Anjou, Count of Provence, petitioned the Pisan Antipope Alexander V to establish the University of Provence, making it one of the oldest universities in the Francophone world. The institution came into its current form in 2012 following the reunification of the University of Provence, the University of the Mediterranean and Paul Cézanne University, resulting in the creation of the largest university in the French-speaking world in terms of its student body, its faculty and staff, and its budget that currently stands at €856 million.
The university is organized around five main campuses situated in Aix-en-Provence and Marseille. Apart from its major campuses, AMU owns and operates facilities in Arles, Aubagne, Avignon, Digne-les-Bains, Gap, La Ciotat, Lambesc and Salon-de-Provence. The university is headquartered in the 7th arrondissement of Marseille.
AMU has produced many notable alumni in the fields of law, politics, business, economics, and the arts. To date, there have been five Nobel Prize laureates amongst its alumni and faculty, as well as a two-time recipient of the Pulitzer Prize, six César Award winners, multiple heads of state or government, parliamentary speakers, government ministers, judges, ambassadors, and members of the constituent academies of the Institut de France.
AMU has hundreds of research and teaching partnerships, including close collaboration with the French National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS), the French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA), and Électricité de France (EDF). AMU is a member of numerous academic organisations including the European University Association (EUA), the Mediterranean Universities Union (UNIMED), and the Udice Group.

Title: List of chess grandmasters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_chess_grandmasters
Excerpt: The following people have all been grandmasters (GM) of chess. The title has been awarded since 1950 to players who have met the standards required by the sport's governing body, FIDE. Other than world champion, it is the highest title a chess player can attain and is awarded for life, although FIDE regulations allow for the revocation of titles for cheating or fraud. FIDE has awarded 2160 grandmaster titles, not counting four GM titles that have been revoked.

Title: 2024 French legislative election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_French_legislative_election
Excerpt: Legislative elections were held in France on 30 June and 7 July 2024 (and one day earlier for some voters outside of metropolitan France) to elect all 577 members of the 17th National Assembly of the Fifth Republic. The election followed the dissolution of the National Assembly by President Emmanuel Macron, triggering a snap election after the National Rally (RN) made substantial gains and Macron's Besoin d'Europe electoral list lost a significant number of seats in the 2024 European Parliament election.
In the first round of the election, the National Rally and candidates jointly backed by Éric Ciotti of The Republicans (LR) led with 33.21% of the vote, followed by the parties of the New Popular Front (NFP) with 28.14%, the pro-Macron alliance Ensemble with 21.28%, and LR candidates with 6.57%, with an overall turnout of 66.71%, the highest since 1997. On the basis of these results, a record 306 constituencies were headed to three-way runoffs and 5 to four-way runoffs, but 134 NFP and 82 Ensemble candidates withdrew despite qualifying for the run-off in order to reduce the RN's chances of winning an absolute majority of seats.
In the second round, based on the Interior Ministry's candidate labeling, NFP candidates won 180 seats, with the Ensemble coalition winning 159, National Rally-supported candidates taking 142, and LR candidates winning 39 seats. Since no party reached the requisite 289 seats needed for a majority, the second round resulted in a hung parliament. Unofficial media classifications of candidates' affiliations may differ slightly from those used by the Ministry of Interior: according to Le Monde's analysis, 182 NFP-affiliated candidates were elected, compared with 168 for Ensemble, 143 for the RN, and 45 for LR. The voter turnout for the second round, 66.63%, likewise set the record for being the highest since 1997.
Macron initially refused Gabriel Attal's resignation on 8 July, but accepted the resignation of the government on 16 July, allowing ministers to vote for the president of the National Assembly while remaining in place as a caretaker government. NFP leaders called for the appointment of a prime minister from the left, but Ensemble and LR figures advocated for an alliance and threatened that any NFP-led government including ministers from La France Insoumise (LFI) would face an immediate vote of no confidence. Post-election negotiations between NFP alliance partners exposed renewed tensions, with party leaders taking until 23 July to agree upon a name for prime minister – the 37-year-old director of finance and purchasing for the city of Paris, Lucie Castets. Macron announced a truce for making political negotiations during the 2024 Summer Olympics on 26 July to 11 August. After the truce, Macron still did not signal any intent to appoint her and called party leaders meeting in Élysée on 23 August, he finally refused to do so on 27 August, leading the NFP to announce they would not take part in further talks with Macron unless it was "to discuss forming a government".
On 5 September, Macron appointed Michel Barnier as prime minister. He presented his government on 19 September and announced on 22 September. On 1 October, Barnier presented his first speech in the National Assembly. Analysts noted that the failure of any bloc to attain support from an absolute majority of deputies could lead to institutional deadlock because any government must be able to survive motions of no confidence against them. Although Macron can call a second snap election, he is unable to do so until at least a year after the 2024 election, as stipulated by the constitution. On 9 October, Barnier survived a motion of no confidence led by 193 members of the NFP and 4 members of LIOT members support. Another motion of no confidence, led by the National Rally and the leftist coalition on 4 December, successfully ousted Barnier with 331 votes in favor.