Title: Mowgli
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mowgli
Excerpt: Mowgli (, MOW-glee) is a fictional character and the protagonist of the Mowgli stories featured among Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book stories. He is a feral boy from the Pench area in Seoni, Madhya Pradesh, India, who originally appeared in Kipling's short story "In the Rukh" (collected in Many Inventions, 1893) and then became the most prominent character in the collections The Jungle Book and The Second Jungle Book (1894–1895), which also featured stories about other (on the basis of Marwar king Rao Sihaji) characters.

Title: List of fictional feral children
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fictional_feral_children
Excerpt: Feral children, children who have lived from a young age without human contact, appear in mythological and fictional works, usually raised by animals. Often their dual heritage is a benefit to them, protecting them from the corrupting influence of human society, such as in Tarzan's case. It may also permit the development and expression of their own animal nature, for example Enkidu, or providing access to the wisdom and lore by which animals survive in the wild, for example Mowgli.
In most tales, the child is lost or abandoned. They are then found and adopted in a chance encounter with a sympathetic wild animal. In some stories, the child chooses to abandon human society or refuses to enter society altogether. The child usually returns to civilization, but may decide to return again to life in the wild. In some cases, they find themselves trapped between worlds, unable to enter entirely into either human society or animal society.

Title: Abigail Breslin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abigail_Breslin
Excerpt: Abigail Breslin (born April 14, 1996) is an American actress. Following a string of film parts as a young child, she rose to prominence at age 10 after playing Olive Hoover in Little Miss Sunshine (2006), for which Breslin received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. She went on to establish herself as a mainstream actress with roles in films such as No Reservations (2007), Nim's Island (2008), Definitely, Maybe (2008), My Sister's Keeper, Zombieland (both 2009), Rango (2011), The Call, August: Osage County, Ender's Game (all 2013), Maggie (2015), Zombieland: Double Tap (2019) and Stillwater (2021). Breslin's other projects include the Fox series Scream Queens (2015–2016), where she portrayed Libby Putney, her first regular role on television.

Title: Tarzan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarzan
Excerpt: Tarzan (John Clayton, Viscount Greystoke) is a fictional character, a feral child raised in one of the Congolian rainforests by the Mangani great apes; he later experiences civilization, only to reject it and return to the wild as a heroic adventurer.
Created by Edgar Rice Burroughs, Tarzan first appeared in the novel Tarzan of the Apes (magazine publication 1912, book publication 1914), and subsequently in 23 sequels, several books by Burroughs and other authors, and innumerable works in other media, both authorized and unauthorized.

Title: Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingdom_of_the_Planet_of_the_Apes
Excerpt: Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes is a 2024 American science fiction action film directed by Wes Ball and written by Josh Friedman. It is the fourth installment in the Planet of the Apes reboot film series and the tenth film overall, serving as a standalone sequel to War for the Planet of the Apes (2017). The film stars Owen Teague, Freya Allan, Kevin Durand, Peter Macon, and William H. Macy. It takes place many generations after the events of War and follows Noa (Teague), a young chimpanzee hunter who embarks on a journey alongside Mae (Allan), a human woman, to determine the future for apes and humans alike.
Development on a new Planet of the Apes film began in April 2019, following Disney's acquisition of 20th Century Fox, with Ball attached as writer and director that December. Much of the screenplay was written during the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, with casting commencing in June 2022, following the screenplay's completion. Teague was cast in the lead role that August, with the film's title and additional casting announced in the following months. Principal photography began in October 2022 in Sydney and wrapped in February 2023, with a budget of $120–160 million.
Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes premiered at the TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles on May 2, 2024, and was released by 20th Century Studios in the United States on May 10. The film grossed over $397 million worldwide and received generally positive reviews from critics, though it was ultimately deemed inferior to its predecessors. It received a nomination for Best Visual Effects at the 97th Academy Awards. A sequel is in development.