Title: Overview of gun laws by nation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overview_of_gun_laws_by_nation
Excerpt: Gun laws and policies, collectively referred to as firearms regulation or gun control, regulate the manufacture, sale, transfer, possession, modification, and use of small arms by civilians. Laws of some countries may afford civilians a right to keep and bear arms, and have more liberal gun laws than neighboring jurisdictions. Gun control typically restricts access to certain categories of firearms and limits the categories of persons who may be granted permission to access firearms. There may be separate licenses for hunting, sport shooting, self-defense, collecting, and concealed carry, each with different sets of requirements, privileges, and responsibilities.
Gun laws are usually justified by a legislature's intent to curb the usage of small arms in crime, and to this end they frequently target types of arms identified in crimes and shootings, such as handguns and other types of concealable firearms. Semi-automatic rifle designs which are derived from service rifles, sometimes colloquially referred to as assault rifles, often face additional scrutiny from lawmakers. Persons restricted from legal access to firearms may include those below a certain age or those with a criminal record. Firearms licenses to purchase or possess may be denied to those defined as most at risk of harming or murdering themselves or others, persons with a history of domestic violence, alcohol use disorder or substance use disorder, mental illness, depression, or those who have attempted suicide. Those applying for a firearm license may need to demonstrate competence by completing a gun safety course and/or show provisions for a secure location to store weapons.
The legislation which restricts small arms may also restrict other weapons, such as explosives, crossbows, swords, electroshock weapons, air guns, and pepper spray. It may also restrict firearm accessories, notably high-capacity magazines, sound suppressors, and devices such as auto sears, which enable fully automatic fire. There may be restrictions on the quantity or types of ammunition purchased, with certain types prohibited. Due to the global scope of this article, detailed coverage cannot be provided on all these matters; the article will instead attempt to briefly summarize each country's weapon laws in regard to small arms use and ownership by civilians.

Title: Slavery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slavery
Excerpt: Slavery is the ownership of a person as property, especially in regard to their labour. It is an economic phenomenon and its history resides in economic history. Slavery typically involves compulsory work, with the slave's location of work and residence dictated by the party that holds them in bondage. Enslavement is the placement of a person into slavery, and the person is called a slave or an enslaved person.
Many historical cases of enslavement occurred as a result of breaking the law, becoming indebted, suffering a military defeat, or exploitation for cheaper labor; other forms of slavery were instituted along demographic lines such as race or sex. Slaves would be kept in bondage for life, or for a fixed period of time after which they would be granted freedom. Although slavery is usually involuntary and involves coercion, there are also cases where people voluntarily enter into slavery to pay a debt or earn money due to poverty. In the course of human history, slavery was a common feature of civilization, and existed in most societies throughout history, but it is now outlawed in every country in the world except as a punishment for a crime. In general there were two types of slavery throughout human history: domestic and productive.
In chattel slavery, the slave is legally rendered the personal property (chattel) of the slave owner. In economics, the term de facto slavery describes the conditions of unfree labour and forced labour that most slaves endure. Slavery, despite no longer being legally recognized anywhere in the world, is still prevalent in some form in all countries today, though some regions have more concentration of slaves: 60% in Asia and Pacific,  23% in Africa, 9% in Europe and Central Asia, 5% in the Americas, and 1% in Arab states. In 2019, approximately 40 million people, of whom 26% were children, were still enslaved throughout the world despite slavery being illegal. In the modern world, more than 50% of slaves provide forced labour, usually in the factories and sweatshops of the private sector of a country's economy. In industrialised countries, human trafficking is a modern variety of slavery; in non-industrialised countries, people in debt bondage are common, others include captive domestic servants, people in forced marriages, and child soldiers.

Title: Deadly Women
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deadly_Women
Excerpt: Deadly Women is an American true crime documentary television series produced by Beyond International Group and airing on the Investigation Discovery (ID) network.
The series focuses on murders committed by women. It is hosted by former FBI criminal profiler Candice DeLong and narrated by Lynnanne Zager.
Deadly Women was first broadcast in 2005 as a three-part miniseries under the subtitles: “Obsession”, “Greed”, and “Revenge”. It was revived as a regularly scheduled series and began airing on December 24, 2008.  Two major changes were made: Lynnanne Zager replaced original narrator Marsha Crenshaw, and the number of cases in each episode was reduced from four to three. The episodes were also recorded and presented in a widescreen format. The series was canceled in 2021 after 14 seasons.
Dubbed versions are also produced.  A Spanish-language version aired on Discovery en Español under the title Las Verdaderas Mujeres Asesinas (True Killer Women); an Italian language version airs on Real Time Italy under the title Donne mortali (a literal translation of the English title).

Title: Conscription in Finland
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conscription_in_Finland
Excerpt: Conscription in Finland is part of a general compulsion for national military service for all adult males (Finnish: Asevelvollisuus; Swedish: Värnplikt) defined in the section 127 of the Constitution of Finland.
Conscription can take the form of military or of civilian service. According to Finnish Defence Forces 2011 data, slightly under 65% of Finnish males turned 30 had entered and finished the military service. The number of female volunteers to annually enter armed service had stabilized at approximately 300. The service period is 165 days, 255 days, or 347 days for the rank and file conscripts and 347 days for conscripts trained as non-commissioned officers or reserve officers. The length of civilian service is always twelve months. Those electing to serve unarmed in duties where unarmed service is possible serve either nine or twelve months, depending on their training.
Any Finnish citizen who refuses to perform both military and civilian service faces a penalty of 173 days in prison, minus any served days. Such sentences are usually served fully in prison, with no parole. Jehovah's Witnesses are no longer exempted from service as of February 27, 2019. The inhabitants of demilitarized Åland are exempt from military service. By the Conscription Act of 1951, they are, however, required to serve a time at a local institution, like the coast guard. However, until such service has been arranged, they are freed from service obligation. The non-military service of Åland islands has not been arranged since the introduction of the act, and there are no plans to institute it. The inhabitants of Åland islands can also volunteer for military service on the mainland.  Dual nationals of Finland and another country can also be exempted if they either complete at least 4 months of military service in another country, or have resided overseas for at least 7 years and do not move back to Finland before the age of 29.
As of 1995, women are permitted to serve on a voluntary basis and pursue careers in the military after their initial voluntary military service.
The military service takes place in Finnish Defence Forces or in the Finnish Border Guard. All services of the Finnish Defence Forces train conscripts. However, the Border Guard trains conscripts only in land-based units, not in coast guard detachments or in the Border Guard Air Wing. Civilian service may take place in the Civilian Service Center in Lapinjärvi or in an accepted non-profit organization of educational, social or medical nature.

Title: Slavery in Georgia (country)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slavery_in_Georgia_(country)
Excerpt: Slavery in Georgia refer to the history of slavery in the area that was later to form the nation of Georgia. 
There are limited information about slavery in Ancient Georgia. However, Georgia close to the ancient Black Sea slave trade, which affected Georgia for centuries. From the Middle Ages, Georgia became a Christian country surrounded by Muslim lands, which made it defined as infidel kafir of Dar al-Harb and therefore vulnerable to Islamic slave raids. During the early modern age, Georgia was a weak religious border zone, politically split between an Eastern part who was tribute state to Iran, and a Western part that was a tributary state of the Ottoman Empire, and forced to deliver tributary slaves to both Islamic empires. Georgia also participated in the Black Sea slave trade. 
In the late 18th century, Russia took the slave trade as an excuse to intervene and eventually conquer Georgia. The Russian anti-slavery campaign was the official policy when Georgia became a part of Russia in 1801–1802, but it was arbitrarily enforced and the success was slow. Not until the 1850s had Georgia's open participation in the Black Sea slave trade ended, and the remaining slave trade of the mountain tribes in the Caucasus was finally eradicated in the 1860s.