Title: Cell (biology)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cell_(biology)
Excerpt: The cell is the basic structural and functional unit of all forms of life or organisms. The term comes from the Latin word cellula meaning 'small room'. A biological cell basically consists of a semipermeable cell membrane enclosing cytoplasm that contains genetic material. Most cells are only visible under a microscope. Except for highly-differentiated cell types (examples include red blood cells and gametes) most cells are capable of replication, and protein synthesis. Some types of cell are motile. Cells emerged on Earth about four billion years ago.
All organisms are grouped into prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Prokaryotes are single-celled and include archaea and bacteria. Eukaryotes can be single-celled or multicellular. Single-celled eukaryotes include most protists, some species of fungi (yeasts), and some species of algae. Multicellular eukaryotes include animals, plants, some species of fungi, and some species of algae. All multicellular organisms are made up of many different types of cell. The diploid cells that make up the body of an animal or plant  are known as somatic cells, which excludes the haploid gametes.
Prokaryotes lack a membrane-bound nucleus and have a nucleoid instead. In eukaryotic cells, the nucleus is enclosed in the nuclear membrane. Eukaryotic cells contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria, which provide energy for cell functions, and chloroplasts, in plants that create sugars by photosynthesis. Other membrane-less organelles may be proteinaceous, such as the ribosomes present (though different) in both groups. A unique membrane-bound prokaryotic organelle, the magnetosome has been discovered in magnetotactic bacteria.
Cells were discovered by Robert Hooke in 1665, who named them after their resemblance to cells in a monastery. Cell theory, developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann, states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells, that cells are the fundamental unit of structure and function in all organisms, and that all cells come from pre-existing cells.

Title: Ribosome
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ribosome
Excerpt: A ribosome () is a ribonucleoprotein particle found in all cells that synthesizes proteins by translating genetic information encoded in messenger RNA (mRNA). During translation, the ribosome decodes successive codons in an mRNA molecule and, with the aid of transfer RNA (tRNA), links amino acids into a polypeptide chain. Each ribosome comprises a small and a large subunit, each composed of one or more ribosomal RNA (rRNA) molecules and many ribosomal proteins.
Ribosomes differ in size, composition and organization among bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes, but they share a core structure that reflects a common evolutionary origin. Distinct ribosomes are also found in eukaryotic mitochondria and, in plants and algae, chloroplasts. Ribosomes are assembled through ribosome biogenesis, which involves rRNA synthesis and processing together with the assembly of ribosomal proteins into functional subunits.
First observed by George Emil Palade in 1955, ribosomes have been the subject of extensive structural and functional research. Their discovery was recognized by the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1974, while determination of their atomic structure and mechanism through X-ray crystallography and cryo-electron microscopy was recognized by the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2009.

Title: Last universal common ancestor
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Last_universal_common_ancestor
Excerpt: The last universal common ancestor (LUCA) is the hypothesized latest common ancestral population of single-celled organisms from which all subsequent life forms descend under the three-domain system of Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya. Most studies suggest that the LUCA existed by 3.5 billion years ago, and possibly as early as 4.3 billion years ago or earlier. The nature of this point or stage of divergence remains a topic of research.
All earlier forms of life preceding this divergence and all extant organisms are generally thought to share common ancestry. On the basis of a formal statistical test, this theory of a universal common ancestry (UCA) is supported in preference to competing multiple-ancestry hypotheses. The first universal common ancestor (FUCA) is a hypothetical non-cellular ancestor to LUCA and other now-extinct sister lineages.
Whether the genesis of viruses falls before or after the LUCA—as well as the diversity of extant viruses and their hosts—remains a subject of investigation.
With no discovered fossil evidence of LUCA, it may precede the earliest known life forms. However, the detailed biochemical similarity of all current life makes its existence widely accepted by biologists. Its characteristics can be inferred from shared features of modern genomes. These genes describe a complex life form with a lipid bilayer, and many co-adapted features, including the genetic code and ribosomes for transcription and translation mechanisms, to convert information from DNA to mRNA to proteins.

Title: Ribosomal RNA
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ribosomal_RNA
Excerpt: Ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) is a type of non-coding RNA which is the primary component of ribosomes, essential to all cells. rRNA is a ribozyme which carries out protein synthesis in ribosomes. Ribosomal RNA is transcribed from ribosomal DNA (rDNA) and then bound to ribosomal proteins to form small and large ribosome subunits. rRNA is the physical and mechanical factor of the ribosome that forces transfer RNA (tRNA) and messenger RNA (mRNA) to process and translate the latter into proteins. Ribosomal RNA is the predominant form of RNA found in most cells; it makes up about 80% of cellular RNA despite never being translated into proteins itself. Ribosomes are composed of approximately 60% rRNA and 40% ribosomal proteins, though this ratio differs between prokaryotes and eukaryotes.

Title: Gene
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene
Excerpt: In biology, the word gene has two meanings. The Mendelian gene is a basic unit of heredity. The molecular gene is a sequence of nucleotides in DNA that is transcribed to produce RNA. There are two types of molecular genes: protein-coding genes and non-coding genes. During gene expression (the synthesis of RNA or protein from a gene), DNA is first copied into RNA. RNA can be directly functional or be the intermediate template for the synthesis of a protein.
Genes and their regulatory sequences are mainly responsible for determining the physical traits, or the phenotype of an organism. The genotype is the total amount of DNA in an organism including genes, other functional elements, and non-functional DNA. 
A gene can acquire mutations in its sequence, leading to different variants, known as alleles, in the population. These alleles encode slightly different versions of a gene, which may be expressed as different phenotypic traits. 
Populations evolve when the frequencies of alleles shift due mostly to natural selection and genetic drift. Some of these alleles are located in genes.