Title: Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rowan_%26_Martin%27s_Laugh-In
Excerpt: Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In (often simply referred to as Laugh-In) is an American sketch comedy television program that ran for six seasons from January 22, 1968, to July 23, 1973, on the NBC television network. The show, hosted by comedians Dan Rowan and Dick Martin, originally aired as a one-time special on September 9, 1967, and was such a success that it was brought back as a series, replacing The Man from U.N.C.L.E. on Mondays at 8 pm (ET). It quickly became the most popular television show in the United States.
The title of the show was a play on 1960s Hippie culture "love-ins" or counterculture "be-ins", terms derived from the "sit-ins" common in protests associated with civil rights and antiwar demonstrations of the time. In the pilot episode, Dan Rowan explained the show's approach: "Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to television's first Laugh-In. Now for the past few years, we have all been hearing an awful lot about the various 'ins'. There have been be-ins, love-ins, and sleep-ins. This is a laugh-in and a laugh-in is a frame of mind. For the next hour, we would just like you to sit back and laugh and forget about the other ins."
Laugh-In had its roots in the humor of vaudeville and burlesque, but its most direct influences were Olsen and Johnson's comedies (such as the free-form Broadway revue Hellzapoppin'), the innovative television works of Ernie Kovacs (George Schlatter's wife Jolene Brand appeared in Kovacs' shows), and the topical TV satire That Was the Week That Was. The show was characterized by a rapid-fire series of gags and sketches, many of which were politically charged or contained sexual innuendo. The co-hosts continued the exasperated straight-man (Rowan) and dumb-guy (Martin) double act that they had established as nightclub comics.
The show featured Gary Owens as the on-screen radio continuity announcer and an ensemble cast. Ruth Buzzi appeared throughout the show's six-year run, while others appeared in at least three seasons, including Judy Carne, Henry Gibson, Goldie Hawn, Arte Johnson, Jo Anne Worley, Alan Sues, Lily Tomlin, Dennis Allen, and Richard Dawson.
In 2002, Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In was ranked number 42 on TV Guide's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.

Title: Dan Rowan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dan_Rowan
Excerpt: Daniel Hale Rowan (July 22, 1922 – September 22, 1987) was an American actor and comedian. He was featured in the television show Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In, in which he played straight man to Dick Martin and won the 1969 Emmy for Outstanding Variety or Musical Series.

Title: Rowan University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rowan_University
Excerpt: Rowan University is a public research university in Glassboro, New Jersey, United States. Founded in 1923 as Glassboro Normal School on a 25-acre (10 ha) site donated by 107 residents, the school was known as Glassboro State College from 1958 until 1992 and Rowan College of New Jersey from 1992 to 1997. It also operates a medical campus in Stratford, and medical and academic campuses in Camden.
The university includes 14 colleges and schools with a total enrollment (undergraduate, graduate, and professional studies) of just over 19,600 students. Rowan offers bachelor's, master's, doctoral, and professional degree programs. It is classified among "R2: Doctoral Universities – High research activity".

Title: Paddy Rowan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paddy_Rowan
Excerpt: Percy Edward Rowe (28 May 1889 – 5 December 1916), known as Paddy Rowan, was an Australian rules footballer who played with Collingwood in the Victorian Football League.

Title: Rowan Hisayo Buchanan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rowan_Hisayo_Buchanan
Excerpt: Rowan Hisayo Buchanan  (born 2 June 1989) is a British and American writer. Her novels include Harmless Like You, which received a Betty Trask Award and the 2017 Author's Club Best First Novel Award, and Starling Days. She is the editor of Go Home!, an anthology of stories by Asian American writers. She was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 2023.