Title: America's Got Talent
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/America%27s_Got_Talent
Excerpt: America's Got Talent (often abbreviated as AGT) is an American talent show competition, and is part of the global Got Talent television franchise created by Simon Cowell. Produced by Fremantle USA and Syco Entertainment, it premiered on NBC on June 21, 2006, after plans for a British edition in 2005 were suspended, following a dispute within the British broadcaster ITV. Production would later resume in 2007, following the success of the first season. Each season is mainly run during the network's summer schedule and has featured various hosts over the course of the program's history. The current host is Terry Crews.
The program attracts a variety of participants from across the United States and abroad, who possess some form of talents. Acts range from singing, dancing, comedy, magic, stunts, variety and other genres. Each participant or act who auditions, attempts to secure a place in the live episodes of a season, by impressing a panel of judges. The current line-up consists of Cowell, Howie Mandel, Mel B, and Sofía Vergara. Participants making it into the live episodes, compete against each other for both the judges' and public's vote, in order to reach the live final. The winner receives a large cash prize (primarily paid over a period of time), and since the third season, a chance to headline a show on the Las Vegas Strip.
The show itself has been a rating success for NBC, drawing in on average around 10 million viewers per season. In 2013, a book titled Inside AGT: The Untold Stories of America's Got Talent was released, providing a description of the seasons, contestants, judges and production techniques of the show. It includes detailed interviews with contestants from all seasons, up to the date of the book's publication.
The series has run for a total of twenty seasons, with a twenty-first season that premiered in June 2026, and has spawned four spin-off competitions: America's Got Talent: The Champions (2019–20), AGT: Extreme (2022), America's Got Talent: All-Stars (2023), and America's Got Talent: Fantasy League (2024).

Title: Shakira
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shakira
Excerpt: Shakira Isabel Mebarak Ripoll (  shə-KEER-ə, Spanish: [ʃaˈkiɾa isaˈβel meβaˈɾak riˈpol]; born 2 February 1977) is a Colombian singer-songwriter, dancer, and record producer. Referred to as the "Queen of Latin Music", she has had a significant impact on the musical landscape of Latin America and has been credited with popularizing Hispanophone music globally, contributing to increased learning and use of the Spanish language worldwide. She is also credited with opening the doors of the international market in popular music for other Latin artists. Her accolades include four Grammy Awards and fifteen Latin Grammy Awards.
Shakira made her recording debut with Sony Music Colombia at the age of 14. She rose to prominence with the albums Pies Descalzos (1995) and Dónde Están los Ladrones? (1998). Her first English release, Laundry Service (2001), sold over 13 million copies worldwide, becoming the best-selling album by a female Latin artist. Her success was further solidified with the Spanish-language albums Fijación Oral, Vol. 1 (2005), Sale el Sol (2010), El Dorado (2017), and Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran (2024), all of which topped the Billboard Top Latin Albums chart, making her the first woman with number-one albums across four different decades. Her English albums Oral Fixation, Vol. 2 (2005), She Wolf (2009), and Shakira (2014) achieved platinum status worldwide.
Shakira is among the world's best-selling musicians with numerous number-one singles, including "Estoy Aquí", "Ciega, Sordomuda", "Whenever, Wherever / Suerte", "Underneath Your Clothes", "Objection (Tango)", "La Tortura", "Hips Don't Lie", "Beautiful Liar", "She Wolf", "Waka Waka (This Time for Africa)", "Loca", "Rabiosa", "Can't Remember to Forget You", "Dare (La La La)", "La Bicicleta", "Chantaje", "Bzrp Music Sessions, Vol. 53", "TQG", and "Dai Dai". Shakira served as a coach on two seasons of the American singing competition television series The Voice (2013–2014), had voice roles in the animated films Zootopia (2016) and Zootopia 2 (2025), and executive produced and judged the dance competition series Dancing with Myself (2022). Billboard named her the Top Female Latin Artist of the Decade twice (2000s and 2010s), and she was nominated for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2026. Involved with the FIFA World Cup at various points since 2006, Shakira has been described as the tournament's artistic, publicity, and humanitarian icon.
Shakira has written or co-written a vast majority of music and lyrics she performed during her career and is regarded as an "international phenomenon", known for blending Western and Middle Eastern influences. She received the Latin Recording Academy Person of the Year and Harvard Foundation Artist of the Year awards in 2011, for her philanthropic and humanitarian work, such as the Barefoot Foundation, and was appointed to the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics. Additionally, she was granted the honor of Chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters by the French government in 2012, and advocates for equitable development of the Global South,  the rights and interests of children, the Latino minority in the U.S. and Canada, women, and other under-represented groups.

Title: Britain's Got Talent
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Britain%27s_Got_Talent
Excerpt: Britain's Got Talent (often abbreviated to BGT) is a televised British talent show competition, and part of the global Got Talent franchise created by Simon Cowell. Presented by Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly (colloquially known as Ant & Dec), it is produced by Talkback Thames (Thames from 2012 to 2024) and Syco Entertainment (until 2025), distributed by Fremantle, and broadcast on ITV every year (except 2021) in late Spring to early Summer. The show was originally intended for production in 2005, but filming was delayed after the intended host, Paul O'Grady, stepped down. Following the success of America's Got Talent that year, production resumed, and the programme eventually premiered on 9 June 2007.
The show is broadcast on ITV1 in the UK and Virgin Media One in the Republic of Ireland.
Every year, contestants of any age can audition for the televised contest with whatever talent they wish to demonstrate. During auditions, participants seek to impress a panel of judges – presently consisting of Cowell, Amanda Holden, Alesha Dixon, and KSI – in order to secure a place in the live rounds of the contest. Once in the live rounds, participants seek to impress the public and judges to secure votes, in order to reach the final and a chance to win a cash prize and a place within that year's performances for the Royal Variety Performance before members of the British royal family. As of 2026, the show has had 19 winners, ranging from musicians and singers to variety acts, magicians, dancers, and comedians.
On average, each series of Britain's Got Talent draws viewing figures of 6 to 10 million viewers. The show's live final in the third series attracted a record 17.3 million viewers, obtaining a 64.6% audience share at the time of its broadcast. Each series of the main programme is accompanied by a sister show, Britain's Got More Talent, presented by Stephen Mulhern. Until June 2019, the programme was aired on ITV2, but has since been moved to online platforms. A spin-off featuring the same judges and hosts, titled Britain's Got Talent: The Champions, was later produced and broadcast in 2019 following the success of the American edition's spin-off America's Got Talent: The Champions. Britain's Got Talent is contracted to run until 2028.

Title: So You Think You Can Dance (American TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/So_You_Think_You_Can_Dance_(American_TV_series)
Excerpt: So You Think You Can Dance (SYTYCD) is an American reality television dance competition show that airs on Fox in the United States and is the flagship series of the international So You Think You Can Dance television franchise. It was created by American Idol producers Simon Fuller and Nigel Lythgoe and is produced by 19 Entertainment and Dick Clark Productions. The series premiered on July 20, 2005, with over ten million viewers and ended the summer season as the top-rated show on television. The first season was hosted by American news personality Lauren Sánchez. Since the second season, it has been hosted by English former children's television personality and game show host Cat Deeley.
The show features a format where dancers trained in a variety of dance genres enter open auditions held in several major U.S. cities to showcase their talents and move forward through successive additional rounds of auditions to test their ability to adapt to different styles. At the end of this process, a small number of contestants are chosen. These contestants move on to the competition's main phase, where they perform solo, duet, and group dance numbers on live television, attempting to master a diverse selection of dance styles, including classical, contemporary, ballroom, hip-hop, street, club, jazz and musical theatre styles, among others. They compete for the votes of the broadcast viewing audience which, combined with the input of a panel of judges, determines which dancers advance to the next stage from week to week, until a winner is crowned as "America's favorite dancer".
So You Think You Can Dance has won seven Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Choreography and a total of nine Primetime Emmy Awards altogether. Licensed variations of the show, produced for broadcast markets in other nations, began airing in August 2005 and dozens of localized adaptations of the show have been produced since, airing in 41 countries to date. The sixteenth season premiered June 3, 2019. On February 20, 2020, the show was renewed for a seventeenth season, that was set to air in summer 2020, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, the season was indefinitely postponed on June 18, 2020, and eventually premiered on May 18, 2022. In December 2023, it was revealed that an eighteenth season would start filming in Atlanta from December 4, 2023, to January 29, 2024. The eighteenth season would premiere on March 4, 2024. Lythgoe departed from the show in January 2024, following a sex abuse lawsuit from one of the show's judges Paula Abdul. JoJo Siwa would join the judging panel to replace Lythgoe. In May 2026, the series was canceled after eighteen seasons.

Title: Can This Love Be Translated?
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Can_This_Love_Be_Translated%3F
Excerpt: Can This Love Be Translated? (Korean: 이 사랑 통역 되나요?) is a South Korean romantic comedy television series written by the Hong sisters and directed by Yoo Young-eun. Produced by Netflix, Imaginus, and its subsidiaries, Trii Studio and Studio Sot, the project utilized full pre-production with filming taking place in South Korea, Japan, Canada, and Italy. The series features an international cast including Kim Seon-ho, Go Youn-jung, Sota Fukushi, Choi Woo-sung, and Lee Yi-dam. It depicts the relationship between Joo Ho-jin, a multilingual interpreter, and Cha Mu-hee, a top actress.
The Hong sisters originally developed the series for tvN in 2019, but the project was canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic preventing scheduled overseas filming. Planning resumed in 2023, and by June 2024, it was officially announced as a Netflix original.
The 12-episode series was released globally on Netflix on January 16, 2026, and proved to be a major commercial success. Following its premiere, it debuted at number two on the Netflix Tudum global non-English charts before claiming the top spot for two consecutive weeks, leading viewership rankings in 60 countries and amassing more than 271 million viewing hours and 20.6 million cumulative views over its first seven weeks. On July 17, 2026, Netflix released its engagement report for the first half of the year, highlighting Can This Love Be Translated? among its most successful Korean series as it ranked 19th overall globally and second among Korean content with 28.6 million views and 377.7 million hours viewed. Furthermore, the series successfully boosted sales for featured brands and increased international tourism to its filming locations in Japan, Canada, and Italy.
The series received generally positive reviews, despite some criticism regarding its pacing. Praised for its central theme that every person has their own language, it earned critical acclaim for its direction, cinematography, and the chemistry between the lead actors, as well as their individual performances. The series received critical acclaim, including nomination for Best Director at the 62nd Baeksang Arts Awards, as well as multiple nominations at the KISF Global OTT Awards, the Blue Dragon Series Awards, and the Seoul International Drama Awards.