Title: Khleo Thomas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Khleo_Thomas
Excerpt: Khaleed "Khleo" Leon Thomas (born January 30, 1989) is an American actor, rapper, and content creator. First garnering recognition as a child actor with his portrayal Hector "Zero" Zeroni in the film Holes (2003), he has since appeared in films including Walking Tall, Roll Bounce, Remember the Daze, and Hurricane Season, and on television shows including ER, The Bernie Mac Show, House, Sons of Anarchy, Bones, Being Mary Jane, Major Crimes, and Shameless. As a rapper, he has released two EPs and toured alongside Bow Wow, Snoop Dogg, Ice Cube, Sean Kingston and Chris Brown.
Thomas created and runs the lifestyle brands Slick Living and Goddess Living Among Men (GLAM). He appeared in the video game NBA 2K19, voicing the Nike representative. Since 2020, he has hosted a Twitch channel dedicated to gaming and pop culture. He also posts videos on his career and pop culture regularly on his YouTube channel.

Title: Twitch (service)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twitch_(service)
Excerpt: Twitch is an American video live-streaming service popular in video games, including broadcasts of esports competitions. It also offers music broadcasts, creative content, and "in real life" streams. Twitch is operated by Twitch Interactive, a subsidiary of Amazon. It was introduced in June 2011 as a spin-off of the general-interest streaming platform Justin.tv.
Content on the site can be viewed either live or via video on demand. The games shown on Twitch's current homepage are listed according to audience preference and include genres such as real-time strategy games, fighting games, racing games, and first-person shooters.
The popularity of Twitch eclipsed that of Justin.tv. In October 2013, the website had 45 million unique viewers, and by February 2014, it was considered the fourth-largest source of peak Internet traffic in the United States. At the same time, Justin.tv's parent company was re-branded as Twitch Interactive to represent the shift in focus when Justin.tv was getting shut down in August 2014. The same month, the service was acquired by Amazon for US$970 million, which later led to the introduction of synergies with the company's subscription service Amazon Prime.
By 2015, Twitch had more than 100 million viewers per month. In 2017, Twitch remained the leading live-streaming video service for video games in the US, and had an advantage over YouTube Gaming, which shut down its standalone app in May 2019. As of February 2020, it had three million broadcasters monthly and 15 million active users daily, with 1.4 million average concurrent users. As of May 2018, Twitch had over 27,000 partner channels. As of January 2025, Twitch was the 30th-most-visited website in the world with 23.46% of its traffic coming from the United States, followed by Russia with 8.87%, Germany with 7.08% and France with 6.26%. In late 2023, Twitch announced that it would stop operating in South Korea in 2024 because of its network fee policy, citing prohibitive costs.

Title: Critical Role
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Critical_Role
Excerpt: Critical Role is an American web series in which a group of professional voice actors play Dungeons & Dragons. The show started streaming partway through the cast's first campaign in March 2015. Campaign one ended in October 2017 after 115 episodes, and campaign two started in January 2018 and ended in June 2021 after 141 episodes. A number of one-shots were aired in the hiatus between the two campaigns. After campaign two was completed, the spin-off limited series Exandria Unlimited aired from June 2021 to August 2021. The third campaign aired from October 21, 2021 to February 6, 2025 with 121 episodes. The fourth campaign premiered on October 2, 2025. The first three campaigns featured Matthew Mercer as the show's Dungeon Master and were set in the Exandria campaign setting; Brennan Lee Mulligan of Dimension 20 serves as the Game Master for the fourth campaign which is set in Mulligan's setting of Aramán.
The series is broadcast on Thursdays at 19:00 PT on the Critical Role Twitch and YouTube channels and the Beacon streaming service, with the video on demand (VOD) being available to Beacon, YouTube, and Twitch subscribers immediately after the broadcast on their respective platforms. The VODs are made available for the public on Critical Role's website and uploaded to their YouTube channel on the Monday after the live stream. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, the show had broadcast live, but has been pre-recorded since its return for episode 100 of campaign two.
The cast own the intellectual property from the show, and the show also lends its name to the studio owned by the cast—Critical Role Productions. The studio has produced Critical Role since 2018. A number of licensed works based on the show have been released, such as several comic books and two official campaign setting guides. The Legend of Vox Machina, the animated series based on the first campaign of Critical Role, premiered January 28, 2022 on Amazon Prime Video. The Mighty Nein, an animated series based on the second campaign, premiered on November 19, 2025.

Title: List of reality television show franchises (A–G)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_reality_television_show_franchises_(A%E2%80%93G)
Excerpt: The following is a list of reality television show franchises that have become franchises with production of local versions around the world, from A through G. See also List of reality television show franchises (H–Z).

Title: Kai Cenat
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kai_Cenat
Excerpt: Kai Carlo Cenat III ( KY sə-NAT; born December 16, 2001) is an American online streamer, YouTuber, and internet personality who specializes in comedic live streams and videos. As of 2026, he is the most-subscribed Twitch streamer in the world, as well as the most-followed Twitch streamer with 21 million followers. He is a member of the streamer collective Any Means Possible (AMP).
Regarded as one of the most popular online streamers in the world, he is known for popularizing several viral internet phrases like Rizz, Fanum tax, and Gyatt. Cenat has achieved significant milestones in the streaming community, notably becoming the first Twitch streamer to surpass 500,000 subscribers during his "Mafiathon 2" subathon in November 2024, and repeating the feat with 1,000,000 subscribers during his "Mafiathon 3" subathon in September 2025.