Title: Melbourne Cricket Ground
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melbourne_Cricket_Ground
Excerpt: The  Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG), also known locally as the 'G',  is a multi-purpose stadium located in Yarra Park in the suburb of East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The stadium primarily hosts Australian rules football and cricket as the home ground of multiple teams in the Australian Football League (AFL), as well as the Melbourne Renegades and the Melbourne Stars in the Big Bash League (BBL) and the Victorian cricket team in the Sheffield Shield. It also frequently hosts the Australian national cricket team. The ground was established by the Melbourne Cricket Club (MCC) in 1853, who continue to manage and operate the site. The stadium itself is owned by the Victorian Government through its appointed MCG Trust.
The MCG is the host venue of the annual AFL Grand Final, the world's second-highest attended league championship event, and the annual Boxing Day Test match. The stadium has hosted two Cricket World Cup finals (1992 and 2015). It was the venue for the opening and closing ceremonies in the 1956 Summer Olympics, where it also hosted athletics and the finals for hockey and football. It also hosted the opening and closing ceremonies, along with athletics, during the 2006 Commonwealth Games. The stadium has also hosted matches during the State of Origin rugby league series, football in the 2000 Summer Olympics, and the Bledisloe Cup. The MCG also hosted both the first Test match and the first One Day International, played between Australia and England in 1877 and 1971, respectively.
Since it was built in 1853, the MCG has undergone numerous renovations, with capacity of the stadium now standing at approximately 95,000 (with an additional 5,000 for standing-room only), bringing the total capacity to 100,024. It is the largest stadium in Australia, the eleventh-largest stadium globally, the second-largest cricket stadium by capacity and the largest stadium in the Southern Hemisphere. It is listed on both the Victorian Heritage Register and the Australian National Heritage List and is the home of the Australian Sports Museum.

Title: The Crystal Palace
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Crystal_Palace
Excerpt: The Crystal Palace was a cast iron and plate glass structure, originally built in Hyde Park, London, to house the Great Exhibition of 1851. The exhibition took place from 1 May to 15 October 1851, and more than 14,000 exhibitors from around the world gathered in its 990,000-square-foot (92,000 m2) exhibition space to display examples of technology developed in the Industrial Revolution. Designed by Joseph Paxton, the Great Exhibition building was 1,851 feet (564 m) long, with an interior height of 128 feet (39 m), and was three times the size of St Paul's Cathedral.
The 293,000 panes of glass were manufactured by Chance Brothers. The 990,000-square-foot building with its 128-foot-high ceiling was completed in thirty-nine weeks. The Crystal Palace boasted the greatest area of glass ever seen in a building. It astonished visitors with its clear walls and ceilings that did not require interior lights.
It has been suggested that the name of the building resulted from a piece penned by the playwright Douglas Jerrold, who in July 1850 wrote in the satirical magazine Punch about the forthcoming Great Exhibition, referring to a "palace of very crystal".
After the exhibition, the Palace was relocated to an open area of South London known as Penge Place which had been excised from Penge Common. It was rebuilt at the top of Penge Peak next to Sydenham Hill, an affluent suburb of large villas. It stood there from June 1854 until its destruction by fire in November 1936. 
The nearby residential area was renamed Crystal Palace after the landmark. This included the Crystal Palace Park, which surrounds the site, home of the Crystal Palace National Sports Centre, which was previously a football stadium that hosted the FA Cup Final between 1895 and 1914. Crystal Palace F.C. were founded at the site and played at the Cup Final venue in their early years. The park still contains Benjamin Waterhouse Hawkins's Crystal Palace Dinosaurs which date back to 1854.

Title: Woodstock '99
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woodstock_%2799
Excerpt: Woodstock 1999 (also known as Woodstock ‘99) was a music festival held from July 22 to July 25, 1999, in Rome, New York, United States. After Woodstock '94, it was the second large-scale music festival that attempted to emulate the original 1969 Woodstock festival. Like the previous festivals, it was held in upstate New York; the festival site was the former Griffiss Air Force Base in Rome, roughly 100 miles (160 km) northwest of the 1969 Woodstock site in Bethel. Approximately 220,000 people attended the festival over the 3 days.
MTV covered the festival extensively, and live coverage was available on pay-per-view. Westwood One held its radio rights. Excerpts were released on CD and DVD. In Canada, the event was covered by Much; their coverage included interviews with artists and attendees, but not the musical performances.
The festival was marred by sexual harassment and rapes, difficult environmental conditions, overpriced food and water, poor sanitation, rioting, looting, vandalism, arson, violence, and three deaths, leading to media attention and controversy that vastly overshadowed coverage of the musical performances. It has been described as "a flashpoint in cultural nadir", "like a concentration camp", like being "in another country during military conflict", and like "a scene where zombies are coming over the castle walls", with the morning after likened to the Bosnian War.

Title: Flatiron Building
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flatiron_Building
Excerpt: The Flatiron Building (originally the Fuller Building) is a 22-story, 307-foot-tall (93.6 m) steel-framed triangular building at 175 Fifth Avenue in the Flatiron District neighborhood of Manhattan in New York City, New York, US. Designed by Daniel Burnham and Frederick P. Dinkelberg, it opened in 1902. The building sits on a triangular block formed by Fifth Avenue, Broadway, and East 22nd Street—where the building's 87-foot (27 m) back end is located—with East 23rd Street grazing the triangle's northern (uptown) peak. The name "Flatiron" derives from its triangular shape, which recalls that of a cast-iron clothes iron.
The Flatiron Building was developed as the headquarters of construction firm Fuller Company, which acquired the site from the Newhouse family in May 1901. Construction proceeded rapidly, and the building opened on October 1, 1902; it originally stood 285 feet (87 m) tall. In its early days, it was sometimes called "Burnham's Folly" because of locals' skepticism of the building's structural integrity. The building was originally 20 floors; a "cowcatcher" retail space (a low attached building named for its resemblance to the device on rail locomotives) and penthouse were added shortly after the building's opening. The Fuller Company sold the building in 1925 to an investment syndicate. The Equitable Life Assurance Society took over the building after a foreclosure auction in 1933 and sold it to another syndicate in 1945. 
Helmsley-Spear managed the building for much of the late 20th century, renovating it several times. The Newmark Group started managing the building in 1997. Ownership was divided among several companies, which started renovating the building again in 2019. Jacob Garlick agreed to acquire the Flatiron Building at an auction in early 2023, but failed to pay the required deposit, and three of the four existing ownership groups took over the building. In October 2023, the building's owners announced that it would be converted to residential condominiums; the project is planned to be complete by 2026.
The Flatiron Building's facade is divided vertically into three sections, similarly to the components of a classical column. The three-story base is clad with limestone, while the upper stories are clad with glazed terracotta. The building's steel frame, designed by structural engineering firm Purdy and Henderson, was intended to withstand four times the maximum wind force of the аrea. Called "one of the world's most iconic skyscrapers and a quintessential symbol of New York City", the building anchors the south (downtown) end of Madison Square and the north (uptown) end of the Ladies' Mile Historic District. The neighborhood around it is called the Flatiron District after its signature, iconic building. The building was designated a New York City landmark in 1966, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979, and was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1989.

Title: Exhibition Place
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exhibition_Place
Excerpt: Exhibition Place is a publicly owned mixed-use district in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, located by the shoreline of Lake Ontario, just west of downtown. The 197-acre (80 ha) site includes exhibit, trade, and banquet centres, theatre and music buildings, monuments, parkland, sports facilities, and a number of civic, provincial, and national historic sites. The district's facilities are used year-round for exhibitions, trade shows, public and private functions, and sporting events.
From mid-August through Labour Day each year, the Canadian National Exhibition (CNE), from which the name Exhibition Place is derived, is held on the grounds. During the CNE, Exhibition Place encompasses 260 acres (1.1 km2), expanding to include nearby parks and parking lots. The CNE uses the buildings for exhibits on agriculture, food, arts and crafts, government and trade displays. For entertainment, the CNE provides a midway of rides and games, music concerts at the Bandshell, featured shows at the Coliseum, and the Canadian International Air Show held over Lake Ontario just south of Exhibition Place. The fair is one of the largest and most successful of its kind in North America and an important part of the culture of Toronto. In the fall, the Coliseum hosts the Royal Agricultural Winter Fair.
The buildings on the site date from the 1700s to recent years. Five buildings on the site (the Fire Hall/Police Station, Government Building, Horticulture Building, Music Building and Press Building), were designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 1988. The grounds have seen a mix of protection for heritage buildings along with new development. The site was originally set aside for military purposes and gradually given over to exhibition purposes. One military building remains.