Title: Athletic Bilbao
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Athletic_Bilbao
Excerpt: Athletic Club (Basque: Athletic Kluba; Spanish: Athletic Club), commonly known as Athletic Bilbao (Spanish: Athletic de Bilbao), or simply Athletic, is a professional football club based in the city of Bilbao, Spain. They are known as Lehoiak (The Lions) because their stadium was built near a church called San Mamés, which was named after Saint Mammes, an early Christian thrown to the lions by the Romans. The team plays its home matches at the San Mamés Stadium. Its home colours are red and white striped shirts with black shorts.
Athletic are the fourth most successful club in La Liga with eight titles to their name. In the table of Copa del Rey titles, Athletic is second only to Barcelona, having won it 24 times. It is also the most successful Basque football club in both league and cup titles won. The club also has one of the most successful women's teams in Spain, which has won five championships in the Primera División Femenina.
The club is one of three founding members of the Primera División that have never been relegated from the top division since its inception in 1929, the others being Real Madrid and Barcelona. These three clubs, along with Osasuna, are the only four professional clubs in Spain that are not sports corporations; This means that the club is owned by its members, who elect the president. The president cannot invest his own money. Athletic's main rivals are Real Sociedad, against whom it contests the Basque derby, and Real Madrid, due to sporting and political identity; a minor rivalry also exists with Barcelona due to historical significance. At various points in the club's history, further Basque league derbies have been contested against Alavés, Eibar and Osasuna.
The club is known for its cantera policy of bringing young Basque players through the ranks, as well as recruiting players from other Basque clubs. Athletic's official policy is to sign players native to or trained in football in the greater Basque Country, which includes Biscay, Gipuzkoa, Álava and Navarre (in Spain), as well as Labourd, Soule and Lower Navarre (in France). Since 1911, Athletic has played exclusively with players meeting its own criteria to be deemed Basque. The club has been praised for promoting home grown players and club loyalty. The rule does not apply to coaching staff, with several examples of non-Basques head coach both from Spain and abroad having coached the first team.
Despite the implications of the name 'Athletic Club' in English, and unlike some of the other major Spanish teams which have several departments, it is not a multi-sport club, participating only in football, although sections for cycling and other sports existed prior to the Spanish Civil War in the 1930s.

Title: C.F. Monterrey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C.F._Monterrey
Excerpt: Club de Fútbol Monterrey Rayados, A.C., simplified as CF Monterrey, and also known as Rayados de Monterrey, is a Mexican professional football club based in the Monterrey metropolitan area, Nuevo León. The club competes in Liga MX, the top division of Mexican football, and plays its home matches at Estadio BBVA. Founded in 1945, it is the oldest active professional club from the Northern Mexico, since 1999 the club has been owned by FEMSA. Nicknamed Rayados stems from the club's traditional navy blue striped uniform, which is reflected in the club's crest.
Domestically, CF Monterrey has won five Liga MX titles and three Copa MX titles. Internationally, it has won five CONCACAF Champions League titles and one CONCACAF Cup Winners Cup. The club finished in third place twice in the FIFA Club World Cup (2012 and 2019). In 2020, the club became the second Mexican club to complete the treble after winning the Liga MX, Copa MX and CONCACAF Champions League titles.
The club's oldest and biggest rival is Tigres UANL of the Autonomous University of Nuevo León. The derby between the two, known as the Clásico Regiomontano, is considered to be one of the most heated and intensely competed rivalries in Mexican football; both teams consistently rank among the highest in attendance and regularly feature among the most expensively assembled squads in the country.

Title: Primeira Liga
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primeira_Liga
Excerpt: The Primeira Liga (Portuguese pronunciation: [pɾiˈmɐjɾɐ ˈliɣɐ]), also known as Liga Portugal Betclic for sponsorship reasons, is a professional association football league in Portugal and the highest level of the Portuguese football league system. Organised and supervised by the Liga Portugal, it has been contested by 18 teams since the 2014–15 season, with the three lowest-placed teams relegated to the Liga Portugal 2 and replaced by the top-three non-reserve teams from this division.
Founded in 1934 as Campeonato da Liga da Primeira Divisão, it was named Campeonato Nacional da Primeira Divisão from 1938 until 1999, when it was changed to its current naming. Over 70 teams have competed in the Primeira Liga, but only five have been crowned champions. Among them, the "Big Three" teams—Benfica (38 wins), Porto (31) and Sporting CP (21)—have won all but two Primeira Liga titles; the other winners are Belenenses (1945–46) and Boavista (2000–01).
The Primeira Liga reached a world ranking of fourth according to IFFHS's 2011 ranking.

Title: Liga MX
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liga_MX
Excerpt: Liga MX, officially as Liga BBVA MX for sponsorship reasons, is a professional association football league in Mexico and the top tier of the Mexican football league system. Formerly known as Liga Mayor (1943–1949) and Primera División de México (1949–2012). The league is contested by 18 participating clubs. The season is divided into two tournaments: Apertura (from July to December) and Clausura (from January to May). The champions of each tournament are decided by a final knockout phase, commonly known as Liguilla. Since 2020, promotion and relegation has been suspended.
The league has held 115 editions. The inaugural edition as a professional league was the 1943–44 season, with Asturias crowned as the first champions.
Liga MX currently ranks first in CONCACAF's league ranking index. According to the IFFHS, it was ranked as the 10th strongest league in the first decade of the 21st century. According to CONCACAF, the league with an average attendance of 25,557 during the 2014–15 season, draws the largest crowds on average of any football league in the Americas.
Twenty-four clubs have won the title at least once. América is the most successful club with sixteen titles, Guadalajara and Toluca with twelve titles each, Cruz Azul with ten titles, Tigres UANL and León with eight titles each.

Title: 2026 Liga DIMAYOR
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Liga_DIMAYOR
Excerpt: The 2026 Liga DIMAYOR (officially known as the 2026 Liga BetPlay DIMAYOR for sponsorship purposes) is the 79th season of the first division league of Colombian football. The season began on 16 January and is scheduled to end on 22 December 2026.
Two tournaments (Apertura and Finalización) are played in the season, each one of them being an independent championship. Junior entered the season as defending champions, having won the 2025 Finalización tournament, and claimed their twelfth league title in the Torneo Apertura, defeating Atlético Nacional 3–1 on aggregate in the finals.