Title: Klasky Csupo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Klasky_Csupo
Excerpt: Klasky-Csupo, Inc. ( KLAS-kee CHOO-poh) is an American animation studio located in Los Angeles, California. It was  founded in 1982 by producer Arlene Klasky and her then-husband, Hungarian animator Gábor Csupó, in a spare room of their apartment and grew to 550 artists, creative workers and staff in an animation facility in Hollywood.
During the 1990s and 2000s, they produced and animated shows for the children's network Nickelodeon, such as Rugrats (which was one of the channel's original animated series, known as Nicktoons), Aaahh!!! Real Monsters, The Wild Thornberrys, Rocket Power, As Told by Ginger, All Grown Up!, and the American dub of Poppy Cat. They also animated the first three seasons of The Simpsons for 20th Century Fox Television and Gracie Films, as well as Duckman on USA Network. In 2008, Nickelodeon ended their long-running partnership with Klasky Csupo and its shows were canceled, resulting in the company becoming discontinued for four years. In 2012, the company reopened. In 2018, it began production on a CGI-animated reboot of Rugrats, which premiered in 2021 on Paramount+, the streaming service of Nickelodeon and its parent company Paramount Global.

Title: Gábor Csupó
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G%C3%A1bor_Csup%C3%B3
Excerpt: Gábor Csupó ( GAH-bor CHOO-poh, Hungarian: [ˈɡaːbor ˈtʃupoː]; born September 29, 1952) is a Hungarian animator, writer, director, producer, and graphic designer. He is co-founder of the animation studio Klasky Csupo, which produced the first three seasons of The Simpsons, as well as episodes of Rugrats, The Wild Thornberrys, Duckman, Stressed Eric, Rocket Power, As Told by Ginger,  and Aaahh!!! Real Monsters.

Title: Nickelodeon Animation Studio
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nickelodeon_Animation_Studio
Excerpt: Nickelodeon Animation Studio Inc. is an American animation studio owned by Paramount Skydance Corporation through CBS Studios. It has created original animated television programs for Nickelodeon, Nicktoons, and Nick Jr., such as SpongeBob SquarePants, Dora the Explorer, The Fairly OddParents, Rugrats, Blue's Clues, Hey Arnold!, The Ren & Stimpy Show, The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius, Avatar: The Last Airbender, and The Loud House, among various others. Since the 2010s, the studio has also produced its own series based on preexisting IP purchased by Paramount Skydance Corporation, such as Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Winx Club. In November 2019, Nickelodeon Animation Studio signed a multiple-year output deal for Netflix, which included producing content in both new and preexisting IP for the streaming platform, while also doing so for Paramount+.
The studio was founded in 1992 under the name Games Animation Inc. as a subsidiary of a pre-existing company named Games Productions (now known as Nickelodeon Productions). It oversaw the production of three animated programs for Nickelodeon: Doug, Rugrats and The Ren & Stimpy Show. In 1992, Nickelodeon began work on Games Animation's first fully in-house series, Rocko's Modern Life. Games Animation produced much of the network's mid-1990s output in partnership with other animation companies like Klasky Csupo. In 1998, the studio moved from Studio City, California to Burbank with the construction of a new facility. It was renamed Nickelodeon Animation Studio and later Nickelodeon Studios Burbank. In 1999, a second facility in New York City was opened, named Nickelodeon Animation Studio New York.

Title: Marvel Studios Animation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marvel_Studios_Animation
Excerpt: Marvel Studios Animation (also known as Marvel Animation) is a division of American production company Marvel Studios centered on development of its animated projects based on Marvel Comics. Marvel Studios created the division as a "mini studio" and mainly produces projects set within the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), and also oversees the development of non-MCU animated projects.
Since 2021, Marvel Studios Animation has released the series What If...?, X-Men '97, Your Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man, Eyes of Wakanda, Marvel Zombies, and the shorts I Am Groot. Additionally, they took over production of the Disney Jr. series Spidey and His Amazing Friends starting with its second season, and have continued to oversee its related series, such as Iron Man and His Awesome Friends and the upcoming Avengers: Mightiest Friends, along with two upcoming specials. The division outsources animation to other studios for each project.

Title: Screen Gems (animation studio)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Screen_Gems_(animation_studio)
Excerpt: Screen Gems, Inc. was an American animation studio and former film distributor, serving as the in-house animation division of Columbia Pictures during the golden age of American animation. Founded by Margaret J. Winkler and led during most of its existence by her husband Charles Mintz, it was best known for producing and distributing Walt Disney's works, namely the Alice Comedies and Universal Pictures' Oswald the Lucky Rabbit series, in addition to numerous series for Columbia Pictures such as the Krazy Kat, Scrappy, Color Rhapsodies, The Fox and the Crow, Phantasies, and Columbia Fables series. 
Following Mintz's death, the studio underwent numerous leadership changes throughout the 1940s. Among those who headed the studio in the post-Mintz era were Leon Schlesinger Productions alumnus Frank Tashlin, Fleischer Studios co-founder Dave Fleischer, The Three Stooges producer Hugh McCollum, and Raymond Katz, brother-in-law of Leon Schlesinger. Alumni of Screen Gems would later found and work for Walt Disney Productions, Walter Lantz Productions and Warner Bros. Cartoons, all of which surpassed Screen Gems in popularity.