Title: List of Puerto Ricans
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Puerto_Ricans
Excerpt: This is a list of notable people from Puerto Rico which includes people who were born in Puerto Rico (Borinquen) and people who are of full or partial Puerto Rican descent. Puerto Rican citizens are included, as the government of Puerto Rico has been issuing "Certificates of Puerto Rican Citizenship" to anyone born in Puerto Rico or to anyone born outside of Puerto Rico with at least one parent who was born in Puerto Rico since 2007. Also included in the list are some long-term continental American and other residents or immigrants of other ethnic heritages who have made Puerto Rico their home and consider themselves to be Puerto Ricans.
The list is divided into categories and, in some cases, sub-categories, which best describe the field for which the subject is most noted. Some categories such as "Actors, actresses, comedians and directors" are relative since a subject who is a comedian may also be an actor or director. In some cases a subject may be notable in more than one field, such as Luis A. Ferré, who is notable both as a former governor and as an industrialist. However, the custom is to place the subject's name under the category for which the subject is most noted.

Title: Chris Avellone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chris_Avellone
Excerpt: Chris Avellone ( AV-ə-lohn) is an American video game designer and comic book writer. He is known for his roles on a large number of video games, primarily role-playing video games, praised for their writing across his three-decade career.
Avellone joined Interplay in 1995 and was one of the designers of Fallout 2 (1998) and the lead designer of Planescape: Torment (1999), the latter of which has been regarded as "one of the best-written and most imaginative video games ever created". After departing Interplay in 2003, he became one of the co-founders and the chief creative officer of Obsidian Entertainment, where he was the lead designer of Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords (2004) and a senior designer on Fallout: New Vegas (2010). From 2012 on, he was involved with some of the most successful crowdfunding campaigns on Kickstarter, becoming known as a "human stretch goal".
Avellone departed Obsidian in 2015 and has since worked as a freelancer for various companies on games such as Prey (2017), Divinity: Original Sin II (2017), Pathfinder: Kingmaker (2018), Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order (2019) and Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous (2021).
In 2009, he was chosen by IGN as one of the top 100 game creators of all time and by Gamasutra as one of the top 20 game writers. In 2017, he was named by GamesTM as one of the then 50 most influential people in gaming.

Title: Giant Bomb
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giant_Bomb
Excerpt: Giant Bomb is an American video game website and wiki that includes personality-driven gaming videos, commentary, news and reviews, created by former GameSpot editors Jeff Gerstmann and Ryan Davis. The website was voted by Time magazine as one of the Top 50 websites of 2011. In 2018 Variety Magazine said that Giant Bomb had "redefined what it meant to be a video game website." Originally part of Whiskey Media, the website was acquired by CBS Interactive in March 2012 before being sold to Red Ventures in 2020, then to Fandom in 2022. As of 2025, the site is independently owned by Jeffinitely, LLC, a company formed by Giant Bomb's co-owners Jeff Bakalar and Jeff Grubb.
After being terminated from his position as editorial director of GameSpot, Gerstmann began working with a team of web engineers to create a new video game website. His intent was to create "a fun video game website" that would not heavily cover the business side of the game industry. The site's core editorial staff consisted primarily of former GameSpot editors. Giant Bomb was unveiled on March 6, 2008, as a blog; the full site launched on July 21, 2008. The Giant Bomb offices were originally in Sausalito, California, before moving to San Francisco in 2010, with a second office established in New York City in 2014. Following the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, both offices were closed and the website permanently shifted to a remote work environment.
Content on Giant Bomb comes from the site's staff as well as its community, which contributes to the site's video game wiki database that is open to editing by all registered users. The Giant Bomb staff covers video game news and new releases in the form of video, written articles, and podcasts. Their weekly podcast, the Giant Bombcast, is posted on Tuesdays, and covers the video game industry as well as happenings around the office. Giant Bomb produces a number of regular video series including Quick Looks, 20–90 minute unedited looks at recently released games.

Title: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_Clancy%27s_Rainbow_Six_Siege
Excerpt: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege is a 2015 tactical shooter game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. The game puts heavy emphasis on environmental destruction and cooperation between players. Each player assumes control of an attacker or a defender in different gameplay modes such as rescuing a hostage, defusing a bomb, or taking control of an objective within a room. The title has no campaign but features offline training modes that can be played solo.
Siege is an entry in the Rainbow Six series and the successor to Tom Clancy's Rainbow 6: Patriots, a tactical shooter that had a larger focus on narrative. After Patriots was eventually cancelled due to its technical shortcomings, Ubisoft decided to reboot the franchise. The team evaluated the core of the Rainbow Six franchise and believed that letting players impersonate the top counter-terrorist operatives around the world suited the game most. To create authentic siege situations, the team consulted actual counter-terrorism units and looked at real-life examples of sieges such as the 1980 Iranian Embassy siege, which inspired the map Consulate. Powered by AnvilNext 2.0, the game also utilizes Ubisoft's RealBlast technology to create destructible environments. It was released for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One in December 2015, PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in December 2020, and Google Stadia in June 2021.
The game received an overall positive reception from critics, with praise mostly directed to the game's tense multiplayer and focus on tactics. However, the game was criticized for its progression system and its lack of content. Initial sales were weak, but the game's player base increased significantly as Ubisoft adopted a "games as a service" model for the game and subsequently released several packages of free downloadable content. Several years after the game's release, some critics regarded Siege as one of the best multiplayer games in the modern market due to the improvements brought by the post-launch updates. The company partnered with ESL to make Siege an esports game. In December 2020, the game surpassed 70 million registered players across all platforms. Rainbow Six Extraction and Rainbow Six Tactics, spin-off games featuring Siege characters, were released in January 2022 and 2027, respectively.

Title: Characters of The Last of Us (TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Characters_of_The_Last_of_Us_(TV_series)
Excerpt: The Last of Us, an American post-apocalyptic drama television series for HBO based on the video game franchise, features an ensemble cast. The first season, based on 2013's The Last of Us, follows Joel (Pedro Pascal) and Ellie (Bella Ramsey) as they travel across the United States. In the second season, based on the first half of 2020's The Last of Us Part II, they have settled in Jackson, Wyoming, with Joel's brother Tommy (Gabriel Luna) and Ellie's friends Dina (Isabela Merced) and Jesse (Young Mazino). After Joel's death, the group travels to Seattle to track down his killer, Abby (Kaitlyn Dever), who is set to be the focus of the third season.
The first season sought high-profile guest stars, such as Anna Torv as Joel's partner Tess, Merle Dandridge and Melanie Lynskey as resistance leaders Marlene and Kathleen, Nick Offerman and Murray Bartlett as survivalists Bill and Frank, Rutina Wesley as Tommy's wife Maria, and Storm Reid as Ellie's best friend Riley. Wesley returned in the second season, which featured guest stars for Jackson-based characters like Robert John Burke as bar owner Seth, Catherine O'Hara as therapist Gail, and Joe Pantoliano as Gail's husband Eugene, as well as Seattle-based characters such as Jeffrey Wright as militia leader Isaac, and Spencer Lord, Tati Gabrielle, Ariela Barer, and Danny Ramirez as Abby's friends Owen, Nora, Mel, and Manny, respectively.
Series creators and writers Craig Mazin and Neil Druckmann felt the television medium allowed an opportunity to explore characters' backstories further than the games, which Druckmann wrote and co-directed. Casting took place virtually through Zoom due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with several high-profile guest stars cast for singular or few episodes. Pascal and Ramsey were cast for their abilities to embody the characters and imitate their relationship. The performances of the main and guest cast throughout the series received critical acclaim for their chemistry and several have received accolades, including two wins and 15 nominations at the Primetime Emmy Awards.