Title: Characters of the Tekken series
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Characters_of_the_Tekken_series
Excerpt: Bandai Namco Entertainment's Tekken media franchise is known for its varied cast of characters hailing from various nationalities, all coming together to compete in the King of Iron Fist tournament. In addition to the human characters, Tekken also features non-human characters for comic relief, such as the bear Kuma, his love interest Panda, the boxing kangaroo Roger, and the dinosaur Alex. Certain characters like Jin Kazama, Kazuya Mishima, Lee Chaolan, and Jun Kazama have their own alternative versions. Each character has their own goals for participating in the tournament.

Title: Conformity
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conformity
Excerpt: Social Conformity or Social conformism is the act of matching attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors to group norms, politics or being like-minded. Norms are implicit, specific rules, guidance shared by a group of individuals, that guide their interactions with others. People often choose to conform to society rather than pursue personal desires – because it is often easier to follow the path others have already made than to forge a new one. Thus, conformity is sometimes a product of group communication. This tendency to conform occurs in small groups and/or in society as a whole and may result from subtle unconscious influences (predisposed state of mind), or from direct and overt social pressure. Conformity can occur in the presence of others or when an individual is alone. For example, people tend to follow social norms when eating or when watching television, even if alone.
Solomon Asch, a social psychologist whose obedience research remains among the most influential in psychology, demonstrated the power of conformity through his experiment on line judgment. The Asch conformity experiment demonstrates the extent to which conformity influences people. In a laboratory experiment, Asch asked 50 male students from Swarthmore College in the US to participate in a 'vision test'. Asch put a naive participant in a room with seven stooges in a line judgment task. When confronted with the line task, each stooge had already decided what response they would give. The real members of the experimental group sat in the last position, while the others were pre-arranged experimenters who gave apparently incorrect answers in unison; Asch recorded the last person's answer to analyze the influence of conformity. Surprisingly, about one-third (32%) of participants placed in this situation sided with the clearly incorrect majority on the critical trials. Over the 12 critical trials, about 75% of participants conformed at least once. Ash demonstrated in this experiment that people could produce obviously erroneous responses to conform to a group of similar erroneous responders; this was called normative influence. After being interviewed, subjects acknowledged that they did not actually agree with the answers given by others. The majority, however, believed that groups are wiser, or did not want to appear as mavericks, and chose to repeat the same obvious misconception. There is another influence, sometimes more subtle, called informational influence. This is when people turn to others for information to help them make decisions in new or ambiguous situations. Most of the time, people were simply conforming to social group norms that they were unaware of, whether consciously or unconsciously, especially through a mechanism called the Chameleon effect. This effect is when people unintentionally and automatically mimic others' gestures, posture, and speech style in order to produce rapport and create social interactions that run smoothly (Chartrand & Bargh, 1999). It is clear from this that conformity has a powerful effect on human perception and behavior, even to the extent that it can be faked against a person's basic belief system.
Changing one's behavior to match others' responses, which is conformity, can be conscious or unconscious. People have an intrinsic tendency to unconsciously imitate other's behaviors such as gesture, language, talking speed, and other actions of the people they interact with. There are two other main reasons for conformity: informational influence and normative influence. People display conformity in response to informational influence when they believe the group is better informed, or in response to normative influence when they are afraid of rejection. When the advocated norm could be correct, the informational influence is more important than the normative influence, while otherwise the normative influence dominates.
People often conform from a desire for security within a group, also known as normative influence—typically a group of a similar age, culture, religion or educational status. This is often referred to as groupthink: a pattern of thought characterized by self-deception, the forced manufacture of consent, and conformity to group values and ethics, which ignore a realistic appraisal of other courses of action. Unwillingness to conform carries the risk of social rejection. Conformity is often associated in the media with adolescence and youth culture, but it strongly affects people of all ages. The concept of conformity can also be understood in relation to obedience, as demonstrated by Stanley Milgram's obedience study. While Milgram's participants were instructed to obey an authority figure, many did so not only out of obedience, but also due to the pressure to align with perceived social expectations in the experimental setting. This blurring of obedience and conformity illustrates how people may follow authority while simultaneously seeking acceptance or avoiding conflict, especially when placed in unfamiliar or high-pressure environments. From a psychological standpoint, both phenomena show how situational factors can heavily influence behavior.
Although peer pressure may manifest negatively, conformity can be regarded as either good or bad. Driving on the conventionally approved side of the road may be seen as a form of beneficial conformity. With the appropriate environmental influence, conforming, in early childhood years, allows one to learn and thus, adopt the appropriate behaviors necessary to interact and develop "correctly" within one's society. Conformity influences the formation and maintenance of social norms, and helps societies function smoothly and predictably via the self-elimination of behaviors seen as contrary to unwritten rules. Conformity was found to impair group performance in a variable environment, but was not found to have a significant effect on performance in a stable environment.
According to Herbert Kelman, there are three types of conformity: 1) compliance (which is public conformity, and it is motivated by the need for approval or the fear of disapproval; 2) identification (which is a deeper type of conformism than compliance); and 3) internalization (which is to conform both publicly and privately).
Major factors that influence the degree of conformity include culture, gender, age, group size, situational factors, and different stimuli. In some cases, minority influence, a special case of informational influence, can resist the pressure to conform and influence the majority to accept the minority's belief or behaviors.

Title: Personal identity
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_identity
Excerpt: Personal identity is the unique identity of a person over time. Discussions regarding personal identity typically aim to determine the necessary and sufficient conditions under which a person at one time and a person at another time can be said to be the same person, persisting through time.
In philosophy, the problem of personal identity is concerned with how one is able to identify a single person over a time interval, dealing with such questions as, "What makes it true that a person at one time is the same thing as a person at another time?" or "What kinds of things are persons?"
In contemporary metaphysics, the matter of personal identity is referred to as the diachronic problem of personal identity. The synchronic problem concerns the question of what features and traits characterize a person at a given time. Analytic philosophy and continental philosophy both inquire about the nature of identity. Continental philosophy deals with conceptually maintaining identity when confronted by different philosophical propositions, postulates, and presuppositions about the world and its nature.

Title: List of gay novels prior to the Stonewall riots
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_gay_novels_prior_to_the_Stonewall_riots
Excerpt: While the modern novel format dates back at least as far as the 18th century, novels dealing with desire or relationships between men were rare during the early part of the 20th century, and nearly non-existent before then, due to the taboo nature of homosexuality at the time. Many early novels depicting (or even alluding to) homosexuality were published anonymously or pseudonymously, or like Maurice, sat unpublished until after the death of the author, reflecting authors' fear of opprobrium, censorship, or legal prosecution.
Works which are widely labeled "gay novels" generally feature overt gay attraction or relationships as central concerns. In some cases, the label may be applied to early novels which merely contain homosexual allusions or subtext, such as Oscar Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray. Works that feature only minor gay characters or scenes, such as the 1748 erotic novel Fanny Hill, are not included in this list.
Many authors of early gay novels were themselves gay or bisexual men, such as Oscar Wilde, Gore Vidal, and James Baldwin. Others were heterosexual, or of unknown identity, writing under a pseudonym. One popular and influential writer of early gay novels, Mary Renault, was a lesbian woman.
Through the second half of the 20th century, as homosexuality became more visible and less taboo, gay themes came to appear more frequently in fiction. This list includes only novels written (though not necessarily published) before 1969, the year of the Stonewall riots, which are widely seen as a turning point in the gay rights movement. Gay plays such as Frank Marcus's The Killing of Sister George do not fit the definition of novel.

Title: Deaths in 2026
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deaths_in_2026
Excerpt: The following notable deaths occurred in 2026. Names are reported under the date of death, in alphabetical order. A typical entry reports information in the following sequence:

Name, age, country of citizenship at birth, subsequent nationality (if applicable), what subject was noted for, cause of death (if known), and a reference.