Title: Body Count (band)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Body_Count_(band)
Excerpt: Body Count is an American heavy metal band formed in Los Angeles in 1989. The group is fronted by Ice-T, who first established himself as a rapper but co-founded the group with lead guitarist Ernie C out of their interest in heavy metal music. Ice-T took on the role of vocalist and writing the lyrics for most of Body Count's songs, while Ernie C has been responsible for writing the group's music.
Body Count's self-titled debut album was released on Sire Records in 1992, and garnered much attention due to a controversy around the song "Cop Killer". Their label, Sire Records, and their parent company, Warner Bros. Records, defended the song; however Ice-T chose to remove it from the album because he felt that the controversy had eclipsed the music itself. The group left Sire the following year, and they have since released seven more albums. Body Count is currently working on their ninth studio album, tentatively titled Death Wish, which is due for release in 2027 or 2028.
Of the band's original seven members, three are deceased: D-Roc died from lymphoma, Beatmaster V from leukemia, and Mooseman in a drive-by shooting. Body Count's current lineup includes vocalist Ice-T, guitarists Ernie C and Juan Garcia, bassist Vincent Price, drummer Will "Ill Will" Dorsey Jr., and backing vocalists Sean E Sean and Little Ice (Ice-T's son).
The band received its second Grammy nomination and later won the award at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards in 2021 for Best Metal Performance with their song "Bum Rush" from the album Carnivore.

Title: The Ghost Inside (band)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Ghost_Inside_(band)
Excerpt: The Ghost Inside, formerly known as A Dying Dream, is an American metalcore band from El Segundo, California. Formed in 2004, the band currently consists of vocalist Jonathan Vigil, guitarists Zach Johnson and Chris Davis, bassist Jim Riley and drummer Andrew Tkaczyk.
The group released a total of four studio albums in their initial run.  In 2015, the band members were injured in a bus crash and forced to take a hiatus to recover. The ensemble resumed activity in 2018, and have since released two more studio albums, with their sixth album, Searching for Solace, released on April 19, 2024.

Title: Power Trip (band)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_Trip_(band)
Excerpt: Power Trip is an American crossover thrash band formed in Dallas, Texas, in 2008. By 2020, Power Trip's lineup consisted of Riley Gale (lead vocals), Blake Ibanez (lead guitar), Nick Stewart (rhythm guitar), Chris Whetzel (bass) and Chris Ulsh (drums); the latter replaced drummer Marcus Johnson, who left in 2009. Their current singer is Seth Gilmore, who replaced Gale in 2023, more than three years after the latter's death. They have released two studio albums to date, Manifest Decimation (2013) and Nightmare Logic (2017), plus a compilation including their early tracks and a live album.
Power Trip was one of the most successful thrash metal bands of the 2010s, with Nightmare Logic entering the Billboard charts, and receiving a number of accolades by publications. A live version of the song "Executioner's Tax (Swing of the Axe)" received a nomination for the Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance.

Title: Riley Gale
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riley_Gale
Excerpt: Riley Gale (April 30, 1986 – August 25, 2020) was an American singer and songwriter who founded and performed with crossover thrash band Power Trip as its lead vocalist. Gale co-founded the band in 2008; with him as songwriter and vocalist, Power Trip released two well-received studio albums, in addition to multiple singles and EPs. He was known for his harsh, growled vocals, intense stage presence, and outspoken progressive politics, which he wove into his lyrics. 
Gale was found unresponsive in his home in Dallas, Texas, on August 25, 2020; he had died due to an accidental overdose of fentanyl the night before. He was remembered by his peers for his talent as a vocalist and lyricist, his potent social commentary, and his kindness and compassion. As a member of Power Trip, he was posthumously nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance.

Title: President (band)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_(band)
Excerpt: President (stylised in all caps) are an anonymous English rock band formed in 2025, who blend metalcore with electronica. The band had released no music and were unknown until they were announced to play at that year's Download Festival, sparking speculation to their identity. Their frontman, the eponymous President, is described by Revolver as "silver-haired, wearing an eerie, not-quite-lifelike mask etched with deep wrinkles and radiating wax-figure unease". They released their debut EP, King of Terrors, in 2025. Their debut studio album, Blood of Your Empire, was released on 4 September 2026.
The band's current lineup consists of The President (vocals), Heist (guitarist), Protest (bassist) and Vice (drummer).