Title: Barbra Streisand
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barbra_Streisand
Excerpt: Barbara Joan "Barbra" Streisand ( STRY-sand; born April 24, 1942) is an American singer, songwriter, actress, author, and filmmaker. Over a career spanning more than six decades, she has achieved success across multiple fields of entertainment, earning her all four of the major performing art awards—Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony (EGOT).
Streisand began performing in the early 1960s in nightclubs and Broadway theaters, which led to guest appearances on various television shows. Signing with Columbia Records, Streisand retained full artistic control of her performances in exchange for accepting lower pay—an arrangement that continued throughout her career. Her studio debut The Barbra Streisand Album (1963) won the Grammy Award for Album of the Year. During her recording career, Streisand has amassed a total of 31 RIAA platinum-certified albums, including People (1964), The Way We Were (1974), Guilty (1980), The Broadway Album (1985), and Higher Ground (1997). She was the first woman to score 11 number one albums on the US Billboard 200—from People to Encore: Movie Partners Sing Broadway (2016)—and remains the only artist to top the chart in six decades. Streisand also topped the US Billboard Hot 100 with five singles: "The Way We Were", "Evergreen", "You Don't Bring Me Flowers", "No More Tears (Enough Is Enough)", and "Woman in Love".
In the latter 1960s, after having established success as a vocalist, Streisand ventured into film. She starred in the critically acclaimed Funny Girl (1968), winning the Academy Award for Best Actress. Additional fame on the big screen followed with the extravagant musical Hello, Dolly! (1969), the screwball comedy What's Up, Doc? (1972), and the romantic drama The Way We Were (1973). Streisand won the Academy Award for Best Original Song for writing the love theme from A Star Is Born (1976), the first woman to be honored as a composer. With the release of Yentl (1983), Streisand became the first woman to write, produce, direct, and star in a major studio film. The film won an Oscar for Best Original Score and a Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture Musical. Streisand also received the Golden Globe Award for Best Director, becoming the first (and for 37 years, the only) woman to win that award. Streisand then produced and directed The Prince of Tides (1991), and The Mirror Has Two Faces (1996).
With sales exceeding 150 million records worldwide, Streisand is one of the best-selling recording artists of all time. According to the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), she is the third-highest certified female artist in the United States, with 68.5 million certified album units. Billboard ranked Streisand as the greatest solo artist on the Billboard 200 chart, as well as the top Adult Contemporary female artist of all time. Her accolades span ten Grammy Awards, including the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Grammy Legend Award; nine Golden Globe Awards; five Emmy Awards; four Peabody Awards; two Academy Awards; the Screen Actors Guild Life Achievement Award; the Honorary Palme d'Or; and the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

Title: The Prince of Tides
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Prince_of_Tides
Excerpt: The Prince of Tides is a 1991 American romantic drama film directed and co-produced by Barbra Streisand and written by Pat Conroy and Becky Johnston, based on Conroy's 1986 novel. Starring Streisand and Nick Nolte, it tells the story of the narrator's struggle to overcome the psychological damage inflicted by his dysfunctional childhood in South Carolina.
The film was nominated for seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture. A television series adaptation was stated to be in development for Apple TV+.

Title: A Star Is Born (1976 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Star_Is_Born_(1976_film)
Excerpt: A Star Is Born is a 1976 American musical romantic drama film directed by Frank Pierson, written by Pierson, John Gregory Dunne, and Joan Didion. It stars Barbra Streisand as an unknown singer and Kris Kristofferson as an established rock and roll star. The two fall in love, only to find her career ascending while his goes into decline.
The film is a remake of the 1937 film with Janet Gaynor and Fredric March, notably adapted in 1954 as a musical starring Judy Garland and James Mason; and subsequently again in 2018 with Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper. It features songs written by Streisand, Paul Williams and Kenneth Ascher, with underscore by Roger Kellaway.
A Star Is Born premiered at the Mann Village Theater on December 18, 1976, with a wide release by Warner Bros. the following day. A huge box office success, grossing $80 million on a $6 million budget in North America, it emerged as the second highest-grossing of the year. Reviews praised its performances and musical score, but criticized the screenplay and runtime. At the 49th Academy Awards, the film was nominated in three categories and won Best Original Song for its love theme "Evergreen".

Title: The Movie Album (Barbra Streisand album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Movie_Album_(Barbra_Streisand_album)
Excerpt: The Movie Album is the thirtieth studio album by American singer Barbra Streisand, released on October 14, 2003, by Columbia Records. Overall, her sixtieth release with her record label, it was executively produced by Streisand and her manager, Jay Landers. A concept album, it contains twelve songs from the singer's favorite films ranging in release from 1935 to 1988. While curating the album, Streisand was inspired by her marriage to actor James Brolin to record songs about love and relationships. To better fit her needs, songwriting duo Alan and Marilyn Bergman were commissioned to add lyrics to several of the songs Streisand had chosen to record.
Individual songs on the parent album were produced by Streisand, Robbie Buchanan, and Johnny Mandel. The record contains orchestral pop compositions accompanied by a 75-piece film orchestra, recorded on set at various studio locations in California during June and July 2003. Simultaneously with the release of The Movie Album, Columbia Records distributed a sampler extended play (EP) version of the album titled Selections from the Movie Album. A deluxe edition with audio commentary and music videos for her covers of "Wild Is the Wind" and "I'm in the Mood for Love" was released exclusively in the United States. Streisand also performed live on The Oprah Winfrey Show, marking her first televised performance in forty years.
Music critics highlighted Streisand's singing ability and the lushness of the album as a whole. However, some felt the collection of songs was boring and ultimately disappointing. Nonetheless, it received a Grammy nomination for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album in 2004. Commercially, The Movie Album reached the top ten of record charts in Canada and the United States. It also received record certifications in Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The Movie Album is Streisand's best-selling studio album from the 2000s and has since sold over 694,000 copies in the United States.

Title: Funny Girl (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Funny_Girl_(film)
Excerpt: Funny Girl is a 1968 American biographical musical comedy film directed by William Wyler and written by Isobel Lennart, adapted from her book for the stage musical of the same title. It is loosely based on the life and career of comedienne Fanny Brice and her stormy relationship with entrepreneur and gambler Nicky Arnstein.
Produced by Brice's son-in-law Ray Stark (and the first film by his company Rastar), with music and lyrics by Jule Styne and Bob Merrill, the film stars Barbra Streisand (in her film debut reprising her Broadway role) as Brice and Omar Sharif as Arnstein, with a supporting cast featuring Kay Medford (also reprising her Broadway role), Anne Francis, Walter Pidgeon, Lee Allen and Mae Questel.
A major critical and commercial success, Funny Girl became the highest-grossing film of 1968 in the United States and received eight Academy Award nominations at the 41st Academy Awards including Best Picture, with Streisand winning Best Actress. Streisand tied for the award with Katharine Hepburn for The Lion in Winter which marked the first and (as of 2025) only tie to happen in the category's history. In 2006, the American Film Institute ranked the film No. 16 on its list commemorating AFI's Greatest Movie Musicals. Previously it had ranked the film No. 41 in its 2002 list of AFI's 100 Years...100 Passions, the songs "People" and "Don't Rain on My Parade" at No. 13 and No. 46, respectively, in its 2004 list of AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs, and the line "Hello, gorgeous" at No. 81 in its 2005 list of AFI's 100 Years...100 Movie Quotes. Funny Girl is considered one of the greatest musical films ever made.
In 2016, Funny Girl was deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" by the United States Library of Congress, and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.