Title: Mako (actor)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mako_(actor)
Excerpt: Makoto Iwamatsu (岩松 信, Iwamatsu Makoto; December 10, 1933 – July 21, 2006) was a Japanese-American actor, credited mononymously in almost all of his acting roles as simply Mako (マコ;  MAH-koh). His career in film, on television, and on stage spanned five decades and 165 productions. He was nominated for an Academy Award, Golden Globe Award, and a Tony Award.
Born and raised in Kobe, Mako moved to the United States after the Second World War, where his dissident parents had moved to escape political persecution. After serving with the U.S. Army during the Korean War, he trained in acting at the Pasadena Playhouse and later co-founded the East West Players. His role as Po-Han (his second credited role on film) in the 1966 film The Sand Pebbles saw him nominated for the Academy Award and the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor.
His other various roles included Kichijiro in the 1971 film adaptation of Silence, Oomiak "The Fearless One" in The Island at the Top of the World (1974), Akiro the Wizard in Conan the Barbarian (1982) and Conan the Destroyer (1984), and Kungo Tsarong in Seven Years in Tibet (1997). He was part of the original cast of Stephen Sondheim's 1976 Broadway musical Pacific Overtures, which earned him a Tony Award nomination for Best Actor in a Musical. Later in his career, he became well known for his voice-acting roles, including Mr. Yamaguchi in Rugrats in Paris: The Movie, Aku in the first four seasons of Samurai Jack (2001–04), and Iroh in the first two seasons of Avatar: The Last Airbender (2005–06).
He died on July 21, 2006, at the age of 72 from esophageal cancer.

Title: List of actors who have played multiple roles in the same film
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_actors_who_have_played_multiple_roles_in_the_same_film
Excerpt: This is a list of actors who have played multiple roles in the same film. This does not include:

Actors who play a character with multiple names and/or a secret identity (e.g. superheroes);
Actors who play multiple copies of a single character (e.g. Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith in The Matrix franchise). However, dual roles (e.g. Jeff Bridges as Kevin Flynn and Clu in Tron) and clone characters (e.g. Temuera Morrison as Jango Fett and the Clone troopers in Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones) are included in this list;
Voice actors who do not physically appear on screen in multiple roles (e.g. in The Lord of the Rings film trilogy, John Rhys-Davies portrays Gimli on screen, but Treebeard is only voiced by him);
Non-speaking extras, background artists or stock characters (e.g. Redshirts);
Compilation films (e.g. Charlie Chaplin Festival), or anthology films with separate, unconnected stories (e.g. Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask)).

Title: Scar (The Lion King)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scar_(The_Lion_King)
Excerpt: Scar is a fictional character and the main antagonist of Disney's The Lion King franchise. He is introduced in the 1994 animated film as the younger, envious brother of Mufasa, the ruler of the Pride Lands. Originally first in line to the throne, Scar is abruptly replaced by Mufasa's newborn son, Simba. Enraged, he devises a plot to usurp the throne by leading an army of hyenas and betraying both Mufasa and Simba. After killing Mufasa, Scar manipulates Simba into believing he is to blame, prompting Simba to flee into exile.
Created by screenwriters Irene Mecchi, Jonathan Roberts, and Linda Woolverton, and animated by Andreas Deja, Scar is loosely based on King Claudius, the main antagonist in William Shakespeare's Hamlet. His villainy was further inspired by German dictator Adolf Hitler, as well as by lions' natural behavior of pride takeovers. As the character's supervising animator, Deja modeled Scar's appearance on the original voice actor Jeremy Irons, drawing particularly from Irons's performance as Claus von Bülow in Reversal of Fortune. Chiwetel Ejiofor voices the photorealistic version of Scar in the 2019 remake, while Kelvin Harrison Jr. portrays the character in Mufasa: The Lion King.
As a character, Scar has garnered widespread acclaim from film critics, with Irons's vocal performance receiving universal acclaim. However, his violence, dark color palette and allegedly effeminate mannerisms initially sparked mild controversy. Nevertheless, Scar remains celebrated as one of Disney's greatest villains by various media outlets—topping HuffPost's list and ranking within the top ten of similar lists published by Yahoo! Movies, the Orlando Sentinel, E! and CNN. He has also been recognized among the greatest villains in film history by Digital Spy and Entertainment Weekly.

Title: Killers of the Flower Moon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Killers_of_the_Flower_Moon
Excerpt: Killers of the Flower Moon is a 2023 American epic crime drama film directed by Martin Scorsese, who co-wrote the screenplay with Eric Roth, based on the 2017 nonfiction book. It stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Robert De Niro, Lily Gladstone, Jesse Plemons, Tantoo Cardinal, John Lithgow, and Brendan Fraser. Set in 1920s Oklahoma, it focuses on a series of murders of Osage members and relations in the Osage Nation after oil was discovered on tribal land. The tribal members had retained mineral rights on their reservation, but a corrupt local political boss sought to steal the wealth. It is the sixth feature film collaboration between Scorsese and DiCaprio, the tenth between Scorsese and De Niro, and the eleventh and final between Scorsese and composer Robbie Robertson, who died two months before the film's release and to whom the film is dedicated.
Development began in March 2016 when Imperative Entertainment won the adaptation rights to the book. Scorsese and DiCaprio were attached to the film in 2017, with production expected to begin in early 2018. Following several pushbacks and delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic, production was scheduled to start in February 2021, with Apple Studios confirmed to finance and distribute the film alongside Paramount Pictures. Principal photography ultimately took place between April and October 2021 in Osage and Washington counties, Oklahoma. With its $200–215 million budget, it was reportedly the largest amount ever spent on a film shoot in Oklahoma, and was a box-office failure with a gross of $158.8 million.
Killers of the Flower Moon premiered at the 76th Cannes Film Festival on May 20, 2023. It was theatrically released in the United States on October 20, by Paramount Pictures, before streaming on Apple TV+ in January 2024, and received critical acclaim. The film won Best Film at the National Board of Review and was named one of the top-ten films of 2023 by the American Film Institute. It was also nominated for ten Academy Awards (including Best Picture), seven Golden Globe Awards (including Best Motion Picture), nine British Academy Film Awards (including Best Film), and three SAG Awards. For her performance, Gladstone won the Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress, and she received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress.

Title: 2026 in film
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_in_film
Excerpt: 2026 in film is an overview of events in the film industry scheduled to occur in 2026. Best Picture Academy Award-winners All Quiet on the Western Front and Cimarron entered the public domain this year.