Title: Heather Graham
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heather_Graham
Excerpt: Heather Joan Graham (born January 29, 1970) is an American actress. The accolades she has received include nominations for two Screen Actors Guild Awards, a Critics' Choice Movie Award, and an Independent Spirit Award.
After appearing in television commercials, her first starring role in a feature film came with the teen comedy License to Drive (1988), followed by the critically acclaimed film Drugstore Cowboy (1989). She then played supporting roles on the television series Twin Peaks (1991), and in films such as Six Degrees of Separation (1993) and Swingers (1996). She gained critical praise for her role as "Rollergirl" in the film Boogie Nights (1997). This led to major roles in the comedy films Bowfinger and Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me (both 1999).
Graham had leading roles in Say It Isn't So (2001) and From Hell (2001), and continued to play supporting roles in the films Mary (2005); The Hangover (2009) and its sequel, The Hangover Part III (2013); At Any Price (2012); and Horns (2013). She has had roles on television series such as Scrubs (2004–05) and Californication (2014). In 2018, Graham made her directorial debut with the comedy Half Magic.
Graham is a public advocate for Children International and supported the climate change campaign Global Cool in 2007.

Title: Dandelion Wine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dandelion_Wine
Excerpt: Dandelion Wine is a 1957 novel by American writer Ray Bradbury, set in the summer of 1928 in the fictional town of Green Town, Illinois, based upon Bradbury's childhood home of Waukegan, Illinois. The first novel in his Green Town Trilogy, the book developed from the short story "Dandelion Wine", which appeared in the June 1953 issue of Gourmet magazine.
The title refers to a wine made with dandelion petals and other ingredients, commonly citrus fruit. In the story, dandelion wine, as made daily by the protagonist's grandfather, serves as a metaphor for distilling all of the joys of summer.
The main character of the story is Douglas Spaulding, a 12-year-old boy loosely patterned after Bradbury. Most of the book is focused upon the routines of small-town America, and the simple joys of yesterday.

Title: Tinker Bell (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tinker_Bell_(film)
Excerpt: Tinker Bell is a 2008 American animated fantasy film and the first installment in the Disney Fairies franchise produced by Disneytoon Studios. It is about Tinker Bell, a fairy character created by J. M. Barrie in his 1904 play Peter Pan, or The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up, and featured in the 1953 Disney animated film Peter Pan and its 2002 sequel Return to Never Land. Unlike Disney's two Peter Pan films featuring the character, which were produced primarily using traditional animation, Tinker Bell was produced using digital 3D modeling.
Tinker Bell is the first Disney film to feature Tinker Bell in a speaking role. Actress Brittany Murphy was originally selected for the part before the role went to Mae Whitman. The film follows Tinker Bell’s origin story, before she met Peter Pan, as she works out her place in Pixie Hollow and struggles with what her “talent” is.
The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray by Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment on October 28, 2008. It was followed by five sequels, beginning with Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure in 2009.

Title: Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tinker_Bell_and_the_Lost_Treasure
Excerpt: Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure is a 2009 American animated fantasy adventure film directed by Klay Hall and the second installment in the Disney Fairies franchise. Produced by Disneytoon Studios, it was animated by Prana Studios, and revolves around Tinker Bell, a fairy character created by J. M. Barrie in his 1904 play Peter Pan, or The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up, and featured in subsequent adaptations, especially in Disney's animated works. The film follows Tinker Bell (Mae Whitman) embarking on an adventure beyond Pixie Hollow as she searches for a magic mirror, with the help of her best friend Terence (Jesse McCartney).
The film was released on Blu-ray and DVD by Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment on October 27, 2009.
It was followed by four more sequels: Tinker Bell and the Great Fairy Rescue, Secret of the Wings, The Pirate Fairy and Tinker Bell and the Legend of the NeverBeast.

Title: Coco (2017 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coco_(2017_film)
Excerpt: Coco is a 2017 American animated fantasy film produced by Pixar Animation Studios for Walt Disney Pictures. Directed by Lee Unkrich, and  written by Adrian Molina and Matthew Aldrich, the film stars the voices of Anthony Gonzalez, Gael García Bernal, Benjamin Bratt, Alanna Ubach, Renée Victor, Ana Ofelia Murguía and Edward James Olmos. It follows a 12-year-old boy in Mexico named Miguel (Gonzalez) who is accidentally transported to the Land of the Dead, where he seeks the help of his deceased musician great-great-grandfather to return him to his family and reverse their ban on music.
The concept for Coco is inspired by the Mexican holiday Day of the Dead. Pixar began developing the animation in 2016. Unkrich, Molina, Anderson and some of the film's crew visited Mexico for research. Composer Michael Giacchino, who had worked on prior Pixar animated features, composed the score. With a cost of $175–225 million, Coco is the first film with a nine-figure budget to feature an all-Latino principal cast.
Coco premiered on October 20, 2017, during the Morelia International Film Festival in Morelia, Mexico. It was theatrically released in Mexico the following week, the weekend before Día de Muertos, and in the United States on November 22, 2017. The film received critical acclaim for its animation, voice acting, music, visuals, emotional story, and respect for Mexican culture. It grossed over $823 million worldwide, becoming the 15th highest-grossing animated film ever at the time of its release. Coco received two awards at the 90th Academy Awards and numerous other accolades. The film was chosen by the National Board of Review as the Best Animated Film of 2017. A sequel, titled Coco 2, is scheduled to be released in November 2029.