Title: Yakuza (video game)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuza_(video_game)
Excerpt: Yakuza is a 2005 action-adventure game developed and published by Sega for the PlayStation 2. It was released in December 2005 in Japan and in September 2006 internationally. The story follows Kazuma Kiryu, a yakuza who spent ten years in prison for a crime he did not commit. After being released, he learns that the criminal underworld is searching for 10 billion yen that has been stolen from the Tojo clan. The game takes place in Kamurochō, a realistic recreation of Tokyo's Kabukicho district.
Yakuza takes place in an open world and makes use of role-playing elements. The player gains experience from combat which is used to improve Kiryu's fighting capabilities. In order to finance the game's expensive production, Sega contracted a tie-in campaign with famous Japanese companies. A sequel, Yakuza 2 was released in Japan in 2006. The game, along with its sequel, received an HD remaster, released in Japan in 2012. A remake titled Yakuza Kiwami was released for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 in 2016, and later ported to Windows, Xbox One and Nintendo Switch.
Critical reception was generally positive; its presentation and story were praised while its controls and mechanics were criticized. Yakuza was a commercial success and sold over one million units on PS2. Its success led to an ongoing franchise, now renamed Like a Dragon internationally.

Title: Yakuza 2
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuza_2
Excerpt: Yakuza 2 is a 2006 action-adventure game developed and published by Sega for the PlayStation 2. The second installment of the Yakuza series and the sequel to Yakuza, it was released on December 7, 2006,  in Japan and in September 2008 in North America and Europe. 
The game focuses on the former yakuza Kazuma Kiryu who receives a request for help from his former group, the Tojo Clan yakuza of eastern Japan, to stabilize relationships with the Omi Alliance group of western Japan. Across Kiryu's journey, he learns of a Korean mafia group linked with both the Omi and his own past, and becomes the rival of the Omi's "Dragon of Kansai", Ryuji Goda.
Yakuza 2 introduced several new gameplay features. Sega wished to improve the fighting engine based on fan input to provide a more rich experience. The story was aimed to feature a deep adult love story, something not seen in the previous game. Additionally, for the western versions the original Japanese audio was kept in contrast to the previous game which contained English audio.
Critical reception to Yakuza 2 was positive, with reviewers praising the presentation and fighting system. Yakuza 2 was followed up by a spinoff, Yakuza Kenzan, in 2008, and then by a direct sequel, Yakuza 3, in 2009. A remake of the game titled Yakuza Kiwami 2 was released in 2017 for the PlayStation 4, and later ported to Windows and Xbox One.

Title: Yakuza (franchise)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuza_(franchise)
Excerpt: Yakuza, also known as Like a Dragon (Japanese: 龍が如く, Hepburn: Ryū ga Gotoku), is a video game series and media franchise created by Toshihiro Nagoshi for Sega. It incorporates elements of the action-adventure, beat 'em up, and role-playing genres.
Each installment is typically a crime drama, with plot lines inspired by yakuza films and pre-millennial Japanese crime dramas. The most frequently featured protagonist is Kazuma Kiryu, a reformed yakuza associated with the Kanto-based Tojo Clan. While Kiryu often finds himself working with the leaders of the Tojo Clan to thwart conspiracies aimed against them, the primary theme of the series is his desire to leave the yakuza for good and start over by raising orphans and trying to assimilate into civilian life. The gameplay of Yakuza / Like a Dragon has the player controlling Kiryu (or another character, depending on the title) in an open world where he can fight random groups of punks and gangsters, take on side missions and activities to earn experience and money, learn new moves from non-player characters (NPCs), eat and drink at various restaurants, visit hostess and cabaret clubs, craft items, and engage in a variety of mini games such as golfing, bowling, batting cages, video arcades, karaoke, and gambling games including poker, blackjack, Cee-lo, and Koi-Koi. The series is well known for the contrast between the dramatic main storyline and the humorous, over the top side content.
The franchise has become a commercial and critical success, and as of 2024, Sega has reported that the video game series has sold a combined total of 27.7 million units in physical and digital sales since its debut in 2005. Strong sales of the games in its original Japanese market has led to the franchise's expansion to other media, including film adaptations and a television series.

Title: Yakuza Kiwami
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuza_Kiwami
Excerpt: Yakuza Kiwami is a 2016 action-adventure game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega. It is a remake of Yakuza, the first game in the Yakuza series, originally released on the PlayStation 2. Yakuza Kiwami was released on PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 in Japan on January 21, 2016, and on PlayStation 4 in Europe and North America on August 29, 2017. It was also ported to Windows via Steam worldwide on February 19, 2019, to Xbox One on April 21, 2020, to Amazon Luna on December 22, 2022, to Nintendo Switch on October 24, 2024, and to Nintendo Switch 2 on November 13, 2025. Versions for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S were released on December 8, 2025.
Like the original PlayStation 2 game, Yakuza Kiwami explores the life of Kazuma Kiryu who is demoted from his clan after taking the blame for his boss's murder. After a decade in prison, Kiryu searches for his old friends who have gone missing. The remake adds extra elements to the story, including Akira Nishikiyama's corruption during Kiryu's imprisonment and constant struggles between Kiryu and his rival Goro Majima. The gameplay was adjusted to resemble the prequel Yakuza 0, with the aim of adding more depth to the fighting system.
Sega had ideas to remake the first Yakuza game in 2015 as part of the series' 10th anniversary but were unsure about developing due to their team focused on making Yakuza 0. Following the success of Yakuza 0, Sega started working on the remake of the first game and aimed to add new elements to the story while trying to make it more enjoyable than the original game. The game was well received, earning positive sales. Critics praised the simplicity of the combat but were divided by the handling of the storyline and side missions. Nonetheless, the Majima Everywhere system was praised for its comedic value. Yakuza Kiwami was followed up by Yakuza 6: The Song of Life later in 2016, and another remake based on the second game titled Yakuza Kiwami 2 was also released in 2017.

Title: Yakuza Kiwami 3 & Dark Ties
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuza_Kiwami_3_%26_Dark_Ties
Excerpt: Yakuza Kiwami 3 & Dark Ties is a 2026 action-adventure game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega. A part of the Like a Dragon series, the game comprises two distinct campaigns: Yakuza Kiwami 3, a remake of the 2009 video game Yakuza 3; and Dark Ties, a spin-off title taking place before the events of Yakuza 3. As in the original game, Kiwami 3 continues the story of Kazuma Kiryu, following the events of Yakuza 2 and its remake Kiwami 2. Kiryu, after retiring from his life of crime to become an orphanage caretaker, is forced to protect his new family from the threats of Japan's underworld. Dark Ties stars Yoshitaka Mine, a major antagonist of Yakuza 3, and chronicles his rise to power as a yakuza. 
The game was released for Nintendo Switch 2, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S, on February 12, 2026. The game received mixed reviews from critics, with praise for the improved gameplay mechanics and Dark Ties's story, but criticism towards the visuals, altered story and removed content from Yakuza 3, and the length of Dark Ties.