Title: Ribosome
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ribosome
Excerpt: A ribosome () is a ribonucleoprotein particle found in all cells that synthesizes proteins by translating genetic information encoded in messenger RNA (mRNA). During translation, the ribosome decodes successive codons in an mRNA molecule and, with the aid of transfer RNA (tRNA), links amino acids into a polypeptide chain. Each ribosome comprises a small and a large subunit, each composed of one or more ribosomal RNA (rRNA) molecules and many ribosomal proteins.
Ribosomes differ in size, composition and organization among bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes, but they share a core structure that reflects a common evolutionary origin. Distinct ribosomes are also found in eukaryotic mitochondria and, in plants and algae, chloroplasts. Ribosomes are assembled through ribosome biogenesis, which involves rRNA synthesis and processing together with the assembly of ribosomal proteins into functional subunits.
First observed by George Emil Palade in 1955, ribosomes have been the subject of extensive structural and functional research. Their discovery was recognized by the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1974, while determination of their atomic structure and mechanism through X-ray crystallography and cryo-electron microscopy was recognized by the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2009.

Title: RNA polymerase
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA_polymerase
Excerpt: In molecular biology, RNA polymerase (abbreviated RNAP or RNApol), or more specifically DNA-directed/dependent RNA polymerase (DdRP), is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reactions that synthesize RNA from a DNA template strand.
Along with the enzyme helicase, RNAP locally opens the double-stranded DNA so that one strand of the exposed nucleotides can be used as a template for the synthesis of RNA, a process called transcription. A transcription factor and its associated transcription mediator complex must be attached to a DNA binding site called a promoter region before RNAP can initiate the DNA unwinding at that position. RNAP not only initiates RNA transcription, it also guides the nucleotides into position, facilitates attachment and elongation, has intrinsic proofreading and replacement capabilities, and termination recognition capability.
RNAP can produce different types of RNA, including:
Messenger RNA (mRNA)

An RNA copy of the coding strand of a gene which is translated into a polypeptide chain at a ribosome;
Transfer RNA (tRNA)
Transfers specific amino acids to growing polypeptide chains at the ribosomal site of protein synthesis during translation;
Ribosomal RNA (rRNA)
Incorporates into ribosomes;
Micro RNA (miRNA)
Regulates gene activity; and, RNA silencing
Catalytic RNA (ribozyme)
Functions as an enzymatically active RNA molecule.
RNA polymerase is essential to life, and is found in all living organisms and many viruses. Depending on the organism, a RNA polymerase can be a protein complex (multi-subunit RNAP) or only consist of one subunit (single-subunit RNAP, ssRNAP), each representing an independent lineage. The former is found in bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes alike, sharing a similar core structure and mechanism. The latter is found in phages as well as eukaryotic chloroplasts and mitochondria, and is related to modern DNA polymerases. Eukaryotic and archaeal RNAPs have more subunits than bacterial ones do, and are controlled differently.
Bacteria and archaea only have one RNA polymerase. Eukaryotes have multiple types of nuclear RNAP, each responsible for synthesis of a distinct subset of RNA:

Title: Transfer RNA
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transfer_RNA
Excerpt: Transfer ribonucleic acid (tRNA), formerly referred to as soluble ribonucleic acid (sRNA), is an adaptor molecule composed of RNA, typically 76 to 90 nucleotides in length (in eukaryotes). In a cell, it provides the physical link between the genetic code in messenger RNA (mRNA) and the amino acid sequence of proteins, carrying the correct sequence of amino acids to be combined by the protein-synthesizing machinery, the ribosome. Each three-nucleotide codon in mRNA is complemented by a three-nucleotide anticodon in tRNA. As such, tRNAs are a necessary component of translation, the biological synthesis of new proteins in accordance with the genetic code.

Title: Ribosomal RNA
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ribosomal_RNA
Excerpt: Ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) is a type of non-coding RNA which is the primary component of ribosomes, essential to all cells. rRNA is a ribozyme which carries out protein synthesis in ribosomes. Ribosomal RNA is transcribed from ribosomal DNA (rDNA) and then bound to ribosomal proteins to form small and large ribosome subunits. rRNA is the physical and mechanical factor of the ribosome that forces transfer RNA (tRNA) and messenger RNA (mRNA) to process and translate the latter into proteins. Ribosomal RNA is the predominant form of RNA found in most cells; it makes up about 80% of cellular RNA despite never being translated into proteins itself. Ribosomes are composed of approximately 60% rRNA and 40% ribosomal proteins, though this ratio differs between prokaryotes and eukaryotes.

Title: RNA polymerase III
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA_polymerase_III
Excerpt: In eukaryote cells, RNA polymerase III (also called Pol III) is a protein that transcribes DNA to synthesize 5S ribosomal RNA, tRNA, and other small RNAs.
The genes transcribed by RNA Pol III fall in the category of "housekeeping" genes whose expression is required in all cell types and most environmental conditions. Therefore, the regulation of Pol III transcription is primarily tied to the regulation of cell growth and the cell cycle and thus requires fewer regulatory proteins than RNA polymerase II. Under stress conditions, however, the protein Maf1 represses Pol III activity. Rapamycin is another Pol III inhibitor via its direct target TOR.