Title: Highlander: The Series
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Highlander:_The_Series
Excerpt: Highlander: The Series is a science fantasy action-adventure television series featuring Duncan MacLeod (Adrian Paul) of the Scottish Clan MacLeod, as the eponymous "Highlander". It was co-produced by Rysher Distribution in the United States, Gaumont Television in France, Reteitalia in Italy, RTL Plus in Germany, and Amuse Video in Japan. An alternative sequel to the 1986 feature film Highlander, it features a storyline in which the protagonist of that film (Connor MacLeod, a member of a race of "Immortals") has not won "the Prize" sought by all Immortals, who still exist post-1985. Christopher Lambert reprised his role as Connor in the pilot episode, which introduced series protagonist Duncan MacLeod, an Immortal who was born in the same clan of Scottish Highlanders who had found and raised Connor generations before.
The series was an international hit and was nominated twice for the Motion Picture Sound Editors' Golden Reel Award (Foley Artist ("The Gathering"): 1992; Foley Artist ("The Darkness"): 1993), three times for the Gemini Award (Best Dramatic Series: 1996; Best Performance by an Actor in a Guest Role in a Dramatic Series: 1997 (John Pyper-Ferguson), 1996 (Bruce A. Young)), once for a Saturn Award (Best Genre Syndicated TV Series: 1997), and eight times for the Online Film & Television Association Award (Best Guest Actress in a Syndicated Series (Sandra Bernhard), Best Direction in a Syndicated Series, Best Writing in a Syndicated Series, Best Syndicated Series, Best Ensemble in a Syndicated Series: 1997; Best Actor in a Syndicated Series (Peter Wingfield), Best Syndicated Series, Best Ensemble in a Syndicated Series: 1998).

Title: The Divergent Series
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Divergent_Series
Excerpt: The Divergent Series is an American dystopian science fiction action film series based on the Divergent novels by the American author Veronica Roth. Distributed by Summit Entertainment and Lionsgate Films, the series consists of three films set in a dystopian society: Divergent, Insurgent, and Allegiant. They have been produced by Lucy Fisher, Pouya Shabazian, and Douglas Wick.
The series stars Shailene Woodley and Theo James as lead characters Beatrice Prior (Tris) and Tobias Eaton (Four), respectively. The supporting cast includes Ansel Elgort, Zoë Kravitz, Maggie Q, and Miles Teller. Kate Winslet played the main antagonist in the first two films. The first film in the series was directed by Neil Burger, while the second and third films were directed by Robert Schwentke.
The Veronica Roth novels consist primarily of the trilogy of Divergent, Insurgent, and Allegiant. Development began in 2011 following Summit's acquisition of the film rights to the Divergent novel in partnership with production company Red Wagon Entertainment. The studios announced production on the sequel following the first film's strong performance in Thursday late-night screenings, where it grossed $4.9 million. They acquired film rights to the Allegiant novel in December 2013, deciding in April 2014 to split the third novel into a two-part film adaptation.
The first film, Divergent (2014), grossed $289 million worldwide, the second Insurgent (2015), grossed $297 million worldwide. Insurgent was also the first Divergent film to be released in IMAX 3D. The third installment, Allegiant (2016), grossed $179 million. The first three films of the series grossed a total of $765 million worldwide.
A fourth film, Ascendant, based on the latter half of the Allegiant novel, was initially planned for theatrical release but was redeveloped as a TV movie and a spinoff series before getting ultimately cancelled.

Title: What If...? (TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/What_If...%3F_(TV_series)
Excerpt: What If...? is an American animated anthology television series created by A. C. Bradley for the streaming service Disney+, based on the Marvel Comics series of the same name. It is the fourth television series in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) from Marvel Studios, the first animated series from the studio, and the first series produced by Marvel Studios Animation. The series explores alternate timelines in the multiverse that show what would happen if major moments from the MCU films occurred differently. Bradley served as head writer for the first two seasons, with Matthew Chauncey taking over for the third, and Bryan Andrews as the lead director.
Jeffrey Wright stars as the Watcher, who narrates the series, alongside many MCU film actors reprising their roles. Marvel Studios was developing the series for Disney+ by the end of 2018, with Bradley and Andrews on board. It was officially announced in April 2019. Marvel Studios' head of visual development Ryan Meinerding helped define the series' cel-shaded animation style, which was designed to reflect the films and take inspiration from classic American illustrators. Animation for the series was provided by Flying Bark Productions and Stellar Creative Lab, with Blue Spirit and Squeeze also working on the first season and SDFX Studios working on the second. Stephan Franck was head of animation for the first season and a director on the second and third seasons, with Scott Wright as head of animation for the second and third seasons. Chauncey was the series' story editor before replacing Bradley as head writer.
The first season of What If...? premiered on August 11, 2021, and ran for nine episodes until October 6, as part of Phase Four of the MCU. The second season was released daily from December 22 to 30, 2023, and the third and final season premiered on December 22, 2024, also released daily; both are part of Phase Five. The series has received generally positive reviews, with praise for the voice acting, animation, creative storylines, and scenarios, although the episodes' length and writing received some criticism. An interactive augmented and virtual reality story for the Apple Vision Pro headset, What If...? – An Immersive Story, was released in May 2024, and a spin-off series titled Marvel Zombies premiered in September 2025.

Title: The Studio (TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Studio_(TV_series)
Excerpt: The Studio is an American satirical cringe comedy television series created by Seth Rogen, Evan Goldberg, Peter Huyck, Alex Gregory, and Frida Perez. It stars Rogen as an embattled Hollywood studio head struggling to balance corporate demands with his own film production desires. Catherine O'Hara (in her final appearance before her death), Ike Barinholtz, Chase Sui Wonders, and Kathryn Hahn play supporting roles. The series was released on Apple TV with the first two episodes on March 26, 2025, with Rogen and Goldberg directing all episodes. The series has been renewed for a second season.
The Studio received acclaim for its direction, performances, cinematography, humor, and satire of the film industry. Viewers and critics have highlighted its extensive use of long takes, as well as for featuring high-profile celebrity cameos in every episode. In its first season, the show earned 23 nominations at the 77th Primetime Emmy Awards, making it the most-nominated comedy debut in history and tying the record for the most nominations for a single comedy season. It went on to win 13 Emmys from those nominations (including Outstanding Comedy Series and Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series for Rogen), breaking the record for most wins for a comedy series in a single season. The season also received the Television Critics Association Award for Outstanding Achievement in Comedy and Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy at the 83rd Golden Globe Awards.

Title: The Chair Company
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Chair_Company
Excerpt: The Chair Company is an American comedy thriller television series that premiered on HBO. The first season premiered on October 12, 2025 and ran weekly through November 30, 2025. Created by Tim Robinson and Zach Kanin, it follows Ron Trosper (Robinson), a man whose embarrassing workplace incident involving a faulty chair leads him to investigate a far-reaching conspiracy involving the chair company, while also creating tension within the workplace. The cast also includes Lake Bell, Sophia Lillis, Will Price and Joseph Tudisco.
The series marks another in a series of collaborations between Robinson and Kanin, who previously met as writers on Saturday Night Live before co-creating the comedy series Detroiters and I Think You Should Leave with Tim Robinson. Among the executive producers for The Chair Company are Adam McKay and Andrew DeYoung, the latter of whom directed several episodes including the premiere, and also previously directed Robinson in the dark comedy film Friendship (2024).
The Chair Company received widespread acclaim from critics with some calling it one of the best shows of the year. Reviewers praised its inventive blend of cringe comedy and surreal mystery, singling out Robinson's performance and the show's offbeat tone, a style some noted may not appeal to all audiences. The series premiered to 1.4 million viewers across HBO platforms, the network's biggest comedy debut in over five years and one of the top three HBO Max comedy launches in the platform's history.
In November 2025, the series was renewed for a second season.