Title: Flatiron Building
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flatiron_Building
Excerpt: The Flatiron Building (originally the Fuller Building) is a 22-story, 307-foot-tall (93.6 m) steel-framed triangular building at 175 Fifth Avenue in the Flatiron District neighborhood of Manhattan in New York City, New York, US. Designed by Daniel Burnham and Frederick P. Dinkelberg, it opened in 1902. The building sits on a triangular block formed by Fifth Avenue, Broadway, and East 22nd Street—where the building's 87-foot (27 m) back end is located—with East 23rd Street grazing the triangle's northern (uptown) peak. The name "Flatiron" derives from its triangular shape, which recalls that of a cast-iron clothes iron.
The Flatiron Building was developed as the headquarters of construction firm Fuller Company, which acquired the site from the Newhouse family in May 1901. Construction proceeded rapidly, and the building opened on October 1, 1902; it originally stood 285 feet (87 m) tall. In its early days, it was sometimes called "Burnham's Folly" because of locals' skepticism of the building's structural integrity. The building was originally 20 floors; a "cowcatcher" retail space (a low attached building named for its resemblance to the device on rail locomotives) and penthouse were added shortly after the building's opening. The Fuller Company sold the building in 1925 to an investment syndicate. The Equitable Life Assurance Society took over the building after a foreclosure auction in 1933 and sold it to another syndicate in 1945. 
Helmsley-Spear managed the building for much of the late 20th century, renovating it several times. The Newmark Group started managing the building in 1997. Ownership was divided among several companies, which started renovating the building again in 2019. Jacob Garlick agreed to acquire the Flatiron Building at an auction in early 2023, but failed to pay the required deposit, and three of the four existing ownership groups took over the building. In October 2023, the building's owners announced that it would be converted to residential condominiums; the project is planned to be complete by 2026.
The Flatiron Building's facade is divided vertically into three sections, similarly to the components of a classical column. The three-story base is clad with limestone, while the upper stories are clad with glazed terracotta. The building's steel frame, designed by structural engineering firm Purdy and Henderson, was intended to withstand four times the maximum wind force of the аrea. Called "one of the world's most iconic skyscrapers and a quintessential symbol of New York City", the building anchors the south (downtown) end of Madison Square and the north (uptown) end of the Ladies' Mile Historic District. The neighborhood around it is called the Flatiron District after its signature, iconic building. The building was designated a New York City landmark in 1966, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979, and was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1989.

Title: Polo Grounds
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polo_Grounds
Excerpt: The Polo Grounds was the name of three stadiums in Upper Manhattan, New York City, used mainly for professional baseball and American football from 1880 to 1963. The original Polo Grounds, opened in 1879 and demolished in 1889, was built for the sport of polo. Bound on the south and north by 110th and 112th streets and on the east and west by Fifth and Sixth (Lenox/Malcolm X) Avenues, just north of Central Park, it was converted to a baseball stadium when leased by the New York Metropolitans in 1880.
The third Polo Grounds, built in 1890, and renovated after a fire in 1911, was in Coogan's Hollow and was noted for its distinctive bathtub shape, with very short distances to the left and right field walls and an unusually deep center field.
The original Polo Grounds was home to the New York Metropolitans from 1880 to 1885, and the New York Giants from 1883 to 1888. The Giants played in the second Polo Grounds for part of the 1889 season and all of the 1890 season, and at the third Polo Grounds from 1891 to 1957. The Polo Grounds was also the home of the New York Yankees from 1913 to 1922 and New York Mets in their first two seasons (1962, 1963). Each version of the ballpark held at least one World Series. The final version also hosted the 1934 and 1942 All-Star Games.
In American football, the third Polo Grounds was home to the New York Brickley Giants for one game in 1921 and the New York Giants from 1925 to 1955. The New York Titans/Jets of the American Football League played at the stadium from the league's inaugural season of 1960 until 1963.
Other sporting events held at the Polo Grounds included soccer, boxing, and Gaelic football. Its final sporting event was a pro football game between the Jets and Buffalo Bills. Shea Stadium opened in 1964 and replaced the Polo Grounds as the home of the Mets and Jets. The Polo Grounds was demolished and a public housing complex, Polo Grounds Towers, was built on the site.

Title: Exhibition Place
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exhibition_Place
Excerpt: Exhibition Place is a publicly owned mixed-use district in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, located by the shoreline of Lake Ontario, just west of downtown. The 197-acre (80 ha) site includes exhibit, trade, and banquet centres, theatre and music buildings, monuments, parkland, sports facilities, and a number of civic, provincial, and national historic sites. The district's facilities are used year-round for exhibitions, trade shows, public and private functions, and sporting events.
From mid-August through Labour Day each year, the Canadian National Exhibition (CNE), from which the name Exhibition Place is derived, is held on the grounds. During the CNE, Exhibition Place encompasses 260 acres (1.1 km2), expanding to include nearby parks and parking lots. The CNE uses the buildings for exhibits on agriculture, food, arts and crafts, government and trade displays. For entertainment, the CNE provides a midway of rides and games, music concerts at the Bandshell, featured shows at the Coliseum, and the Canadian International Air Show held over Lake Ontario just south of Exhibition Place. The fair is one of the largest and most successful of its kind in North America and an important part of the culture of Toronto. In the fall, the Coliseum hosts the Royal Agricultural Winter Fair.
The buildings on the site date from the 1700s to recent years. Five buildings on the site (the Fire Hall/Police Station, Government Building, Horticulture Building, Music Building and Press Building), were designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 1988. The grounds have seen a mix of protection for heritage buildings along with new development. The site was originally set aside for military purposes and gradually given over to exhibition purposes. One military building remains.

Title: United States Military Academy grounds and facilities
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Military_Academy_grounds_and_facilities
Excerpt: The United States Military Academy (West Point) and grounds were declared a National Historic Landmark in 1960 due to the Revolutionary War history and the age and historic significance of the academy itself. The majority of the buildings in the central cadet area are historic.
The West Point Military Reservation, in Orange County, is mostly in Highlands Town. The majority of that area is in the West Point census-designated place, and portions extend into the Fort Montgomery CDP. Portions of the reservation extend into Woodbury and Cornwall Town.

Title: University of Toronto St. George
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Toronto_St._George
Excerpt: The University of Toronto St. George (U of T St. George, UTSG, or St. George Campus) is one of the three campuses of the University of Toronto, located in downtown Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Set on the grounds that surround Queen's Park and St. George Street, it houses the university's central administration and is the largest University of Toronto campus in terms of student enrolment.
The St. George campus is the oldest of the University of Toronto's campuses, comprising historic buildings dating back to the university's founding in the 19th century. It is the location of the university's college system, comprising 11 distinct constituent and federated colleges, each with their own character, history and varying degrees of autonomy. It encompasses 73.6 hectares (182 acres) of land primarily within the University neighbourhood, including 17.7 hectares (44 acres) owned by its federated colleges and Massey College, an independent affiliated institution. The campus is home to the main offices of the president and governing council, and the majority of professional faculties, Varsity Blues athletic facilities, and graduate programs.
Unlike the two other University of Toronto campuses, Mississauga and Scarborough, St. George does not act as its own academic division; instead, it is made up of various divisions and colleges, the largest of which is the Faculty of Arts and Science.