Title: Mike Patton
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mike_Patton
Excerpt: Michael Allan Patton (born January 27, 1968) is an American singer, songwriter, producer, and voice actor, best known as the lead vocalist of the rock bands Faith No More and Mr. Bungle. He has also fronted and/or played with Tomahawk, The Dillinger Escape Plan, Fantômas, Moonchild Trio, Kaada/Patton, Dead Cross, Lovage, Mondo Cane, the X-ecutioners, The Avett Brothers, and Peeping Tom. Consistent collaborators through his varied career include avant-garde jazz saxophonist John Zorn, hip hop producer Dan the Automator and classical violinist Eyvind Kang. Patton saw his largest commercial success with Faith No More; although they scored only one US hit, they scored three UK top 20 singles.
Noted for his vocal proficiency, diverse singing techniques, wide range of projects, style-transcending influences, eccentric public image and contempt for the music industry, Patton has earned critical praise and influenced many contemporary singers. He has been cited as an influence by members of Coheed and Cambria, Deftones, Five Finger Death Punch, Hoobastank, Incubus, Lostprophets, Killswitch Engage, Korn, Queens of the Stone Age, System of a Down, Flummox, Papa Roach, Mushroomhead, and Slipknot.
Patton has worked as a producer or co-producer with artists such as Merzbow, The Dillinger Escape Plan, Sepultura, Melvins, Melt-Banana, and Kool Keith. He co-founded Ipecac Recordings with Greg Werckman in 1999, and has run the label since. Patton is an outspoken, even derisive, critic of the mainstream music industry and has been a champion for non-mainstream music that he says has "fallen through the cracks."

Title: Uncle Luke
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncle_Luke
Excerpt: Luther Roderick Campbell (born December 22, 1960), also known by his stage names Luke or Uncle Luke (originally Luke Skyywalker), is an American rapper, music promoter, record executive, actor, and former leader of the rap group 2 Live Crew. He is a pioneer in Florida hip hop and the creator of the Miami bass genre, known for his sexually crude call and response lyrics. He also starred in a short-lived show on VH1, Luke's Parental Advisory.
A member of the Democratic Party, Campbell was a candidate for Mayor of Miami-Dade County in 2011, and ran for U.S. Congress in Florida's 20th congressional district in the 2026 election, where he was defeated by Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz.

Title: As Ugly as They Wanna Be
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/As_Ugly_as_They_Wanna_Be
Excerpt: As Ugly as They Wanna Be is an EP by the American rock band Ugly Kid Joe, released on October 8, 1991. The title is a parody of 2 Live Crew's 1989 album As Nasty as They Wanna Be.
As Ugly as They Wanna Be is notable for being the first EP to be certified multi-platinum by the RIAA. It is the only record to feature Roger Lahr on rhythm guitar and the only EP to feature Mark Davis on drums, though the latter would go on to play Ugly Kid Joe's debut album America's Least Wanted (1992) as his only one to have contribution with the band.

Title: Lil B
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lil_B
Excerpt: Brandon Christopher McCartney (born August 17, 1989), known professionally as Lil B and Lil B the BasedGod, is an American rapper and record producer. He began his career as a member of the Berkeley, California-based hip hop group the Pack in 2005, who signed with Too Short's Up All Nite Records, an imprint of Jive Records the following year. The group became best known for their hit song "Vans", their sole entry on the Billboard Hot 100, later releasing two studio albums before disbanding in 2010.
McCartney's extensive use of social media in his solo career and online persona has yielded a cult following. His work spans several genres, including comedy hip-hop, new age, jazz, indie rock and choral music. He calls his alter ego the BasedGod, and is credited with having coined the slang term "based", which originally denoted a lifestyle of positivity, impudence or boldness. By the late 2010s, the phrase had  been used to describe stances or actions that negate political correctness; by the 2020s, the term had entered the mainstream and regained a neutral connotation.
Lil B has been credited as "the godfather of internet rap", a pioneer of the cloud rap subgenre, as well as one of the "most influential rappers" of the 2010s, influencing artists such as Kendrick Lamar, Playboi Carti, Young Thug, Lil Yachty, Chief Keef, Chance the Rapper, Yung Lean, Earl Sweatshirt, Black Kray, Bladee, Xaviersobased, and Tyler, the Creator, as well as actor Timothée Chalamet.

Title: List of 2020 albums
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_2020_albums
Excerpt: The following is a list of albums, EPs, and mixtapes released in 2020. These albums are (1) original, i.e. excluding reissues, remasters, and compilations of previously released recordings, and (2) notable, defined as having received significant coverage from reliable sources independent of the subject.
For additional information about bands formed, reformed, disbanded, or on hiatus, for deaths of musicians, and for links to musical awards, see 2020 in music.