Title: Jim Thompson (writer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Thompson_(writer)
Excerpt: James Myers Thompson (September 27, 1906 – April 7, 1977) was an American novelist and screenwriter, known for his hardboiled crime fiction.
Thompson wrote more than 30 novels, the majority of which were original paperback publications, published from the late-1940s through mid-1950s. Despite some positive critical notice—notably by Anthony Boucher in The New York Times—he was little-recognized in his lifetime. Only after death did Thompson's literary stature grow. In the late 1980s, several of his novels were re-published in the Black Lizard series of re-discovered crime fiction.
His best-regarded works include The Killer Inside Me, Savage Night, A Hell of a Woman and Pop. 1280. In these works, Thompson turned the derided crime genre into literature and art, featuring unreliable narrators, odd structure, and the quasi-surrealistic inner narratives of the last thoughts of his dying or dead characters. A number of Thompson's books were adapted as popular films, including The Getaway and The Grifters.
The writer Ronald Verlin Cassill has suggested that of all crime fiction, Thompson's was the rawest and most harrowing; that neither Dashiell Hammett nor Raymond Chandler nor Horace McCoy ever "wrote a book within miles of Thompson". Similarly, in the introduction to Now and on Earth, Stephen King says he most admires Thompson's work because "The guy was over the top. The guy was absolutely over the top. Big Jim didn't know the meaning of the word stop. There are three brave 'lets' inherent in the foregoing: He let himself see everything, he let himself write it down, then he let himself publish it."
Thompson was called a "Dimestore Dostoevsky" by writer Geoffrey O'Brien. Film director Stephen Frears, who directed an adaptation of Thompson's The Grifters in 1990, also identified elements of Greek tragedy in his themes.

Title: James Thompson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Thompson
Excerpt: James, Jim, Jimmy or Jamie Thompson may refer to:

Title: Thomas Lennon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Lennon
Excerpt: Thomas Lennon (born August 9, 1970) is an American comedian, actor, and screenwriter. He plays Lieutenant Jim Dangle on the series Reno 911!, Andrei Novak on Santa Clarita Diet and Felix Unger on The Odd Couple. He is the screenwriter of several comedies released by major film studios with writing partner Robert Ben Garant, with whom he wrote the Night at the Museum films, The Pacifier, Balls of Fury, and Baywatch.

Title: Shelley Thompson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shelley_Thompson
Excerpt: Shelley Alice Thompson (born March 9, 1959) is a Canadian actress. She is best known for her character Barbara Lahey on the hit mockumentary program Trailer Park Boys.

Title: Shawn Thompson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shawn_Thompson
Excerpt: Shawn Alex Thompson (born January 13, 1958) is a Canadian actor, screenwriter, television producer, and television director, as well as a professional magician. Notably, he is one of the producers of Puppets Who Kill, which aired on Canada's The Comedy Network.
Thompson was born in Berwick, Nova Scotia. Thompson's first foray into showbiz came as a magician and circus performer, dangling by his ankles from a burning rope while struggling to escape from a straight jacket. Thompson migrated into stand-up comedy, first taking a stance at Yuk Yuks, alongside prominent actor Jim Carrey. During this time, Thompson guest hosted eleven times on The Late Show Starring Joan Rivers for Fox Television. Also on Fox, Thompson became a series regular on the sketch comedy series The Newz, where he also wrote and directed several short films.  From December 1985 to April 1987, Thompson was cast as Simon Hall, a fictional character on the CBS series Guiding Light, his first daytime role. 
Simultaneously during this period, Thompson also hosted the Toronto regional edition of the CBC Television teen-oriented weekend talk/variety show Switchback, as well as appearing alongside Howard Busgang in the short-run comedy series We Don't Knock, in which Busgang and Thompson performed improvised pranks on real people. In 1985 Thompson was arrested in the United States for illegal dumping after throwing a doll over Niagara Falls as part of a Switchback stunt.
In 1988, he played dance television host Corny Collins in John Waters' film Hairspray. He has directed episodes of the series Puppets Who Kill, winning a Canadian Comedy Award for Best Director in 2003, and a Gemini Award for Best Direction in 2004.
Furthermore, in 1995, Thompson wrote episodes for MGM's The Outer Limits, one of which episodes included a young Josh Brolin.
Recently, he directed shows such as The Next Step and Murdoch Mysteries, and played the recurring role of Gus McIlroy on the BBC Kids show My Perfect Landing (2020).