Title: Club Atlético Vélez Sarsfield
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Club_Atl%C3%A9tico_V%C3%A9lez_Sarsfield
Excerpt: Club Atlético Vélez Sarsfield (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈsaɾfil]) is an Argentine sports club based in Liniers, Buenos Aires. Its football team plays in Primera División, the highest level of the Argentine league system. Founded in 1910, the club has spent most of its history in the top tier of Argentine football. The club's home ground is the 49,540-capacity José Amalfitani Stadium, where they have played since 1951.
One of the most successful clubs in Argentine football, Vélez Sarsfield had their first major success in 1968, when they won the league championship, and subsequently made regular seasons between 1970 and 1990. The club have enjoyed their greatest period of success in the past three decades, winning 17 trophies since 1993. Domestically, Vélez have won eleven Primera División titles, while in continental competitions have won five international cups (including both the Copa Libertadores and the Intercontinental Cup). It is one of eight teams to have won CONMEBOL's treble.
Vélez Sarsfield's regular kit colours are white shirts and shorts, with some details in blue. The club's crest has been changed several times in attempts to re-brand the club and modernise its image. It is one of the most supported clubs in Argentina. Apart from football the club takes part in other sports such as athletics, basketball, gymnastics, handball, field hockey, martial arts, tennis, roller skating and volleyball.

Title: LDU Quito
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LDU_Quito
Excerpt: Liga Deportiva Universitaria (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈliɣa ðepoɾˈtiβawniβeɾsiˈtaɾja]), commonly known as Liga de Quito or LDU Quito is an Ecuadorian professional football club based in Quito. They play in the Serie A, the highest level of the Ecuadorian professional football league. They play their home games at the Estadio Rodrigo Paz Delgado, more commonly referred to as Casa Blanca. Rival clubs include Quito-based clubs El Nacional, Deportivo Quito, Aucas and Universidad Católica.
Liga Deportiva Universitaria de Quito has its roots in the semi-pro sports teams in 1918 competing as "Universitario" at the Central University of Ecuador, and was officially founded on 11 January 1930. They began making an impact in the provincial leagues, winning nine Pichincha titles (six in the professional era). Their provincial success continued into the national league, where they have won 13 national title (4th overall) having won their most recent title in 2024.
Liga Deportiva Universitaria de Quito is the most successful Ecuadorian club in international competitions. The team was the first, and currently the only, Ecuadorian club to win the Copa Libertadores (2008), they have won two Copas Sudamericanas (2009 and 2023), and two Recopas Sudamericanas (2009 and 2010). They are one of only six teams—Boca Juniors, Independiente, River Plate, Internacional and São Paulo being the other five— to have achieved the CONMEBOL treble, winning all three continental club tournaments. LDU is the only team to win all three mentioned cups one after another between 2008 and 2010 causing them to be rated as the best South American team of 2008 and 2009. Additionally, Liga de Quito was the runner-up at the 2008 FIFA Club World Cup.

Title: Agustín Delgado
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agust%C3%ADn_Delgado
Excerpt: Agustín Javier Delgado Chalá (born 23 December 1974) is an Ecuadorian politician and former professional footballer who played as a forward. Nicknamed El Tín, he was the all-time top scorer for the Ecuador national team with 31 goals in 72 games, before being overtaken by Enner Valencia. Delgado played professional club football in Ecuador, Mexico and England.
Delgado made his debut for Ecuador against Peru in 1994. He was part of their squad at the FIFA World Cup in 2002 and 2006, becoming the first Ecuadorian to score a goal at the tournament.

Title: Liga DIMAYOR
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liga_DIMAYOR
Excerpt: The Liga DIMAYOR, commonly referred to as Liga BetPlay Dimayor due to sponsorship by online betting company BetPlay, is a professional association football league in Colombia and the highest level of the Colombian football league system.
A total of twenty clubs compete in the league's regular season. División Mayor del Fútbol Profesional Colombiano, better known as DIMAYOR, organizes the competition and operates the league system of promotion and relegation for both Liga DIMAYOR and Torneo DIMAYOR leagues. Since its foundation in 1948, sixteen teams have been crowned as Colombian football champions. The most successful club is Atlético Nacional with 18 titles. The league was ranked as the 11th strongest national league in the world at the end of 2023 by the International Federation of Football History & Statistics.

Title: Walter Montoya
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Montoya
Excerpt: Walter Iván Alexis Montoya (born 21 July 1993) is an Argentine professional footballer who plays as a right winger or midfielder for Gimnasia y Tiro.