Title: EastEnders
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EastEnders
Excerpt: EastEnders is a British television soap opera created by Julia Smith and Tony Holland which has been broadcast on BBC One since February 1985. Set in the fictional borough of Walford in the East End of London, the programme follows the stories of local residents and their families as they go about their daily lives. Within eight months of the show's original launch, it had reached the number one spot in BARB's television ratings, and has consistently remained among the top-rated series in Britain. Four EastEnders episodes are listed in the all-time top 10 most-watched programmes in the UK, including the number one spot, when more than 30 million watched the 1986 Christmas Day episode. EastEnders has been important in the history of British television drama, tackling many subjects that are considered to be controversial or taboo in British culture, and portraying a social life previously unseen on UK mainstream television.
Since co-creator Holland was from a large family in the East End, a theme heavily featured in EastEnders is strong families, and each character is supposed to have their own place in the fictional community. The Watts, Beales and Fowlers, Mitchells, Brannings and the Slaters are some of the families that have been central to the soap's notable and dramatic storylines. EastEnders has been filmed at the BBC Elstree Centre since its inception, with a set that is outdoors and open to weather. In 2014, the BBC announced plans to rebuild the set entirely. Filming commenced on the new set in January 2022, and it was first used on-screen in March 2022. Demolition on the old set commenced in November 2022.
EastEnders has received both praise and criticism for many of its storylines, which have dealt with difficult themes including violence, rape, murder and abuse. It has been criticised for various storylines, including the 2010 baby swap storyline, which attracted more than 6,000 complaints, as well as complaints of showing too much violence and allegations of national and racial stereotypes. However, EastEnders has also been commended for representing real-life issues and spreading awareness on social topics. The cast and crew of the show have received and been nominated for various awards.

Title: List of soap opera villains
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_soap_opera_villains
Excerpt: A villain is an "evil" character in a story, whether a historical narrative or, especially, a work of fiction. In soap operas, the villain, sometimes called a "bad guy", is an antagonist, tending to have a negative effect on other characters. A female villain is sometimes called a villainess or "bad girl". Random House Unabridged Dictionary defines villain as "a cruelly malicious person who is involved in or devoted to wickedness or crime; scoundrel; or a character in a play, novel, or the like, who constitutes an important evil agency in the plot". An early use of the term soap opera villain was in 1942.
Tom Conroy from Media Life Magazine noted that "On soap operas, sometimes a perfectly nice regular character will suddenly turn into a villain. Viewers are rarely alerted to the change beforehand." Shelley Fralic of the Winnipeg Free Press described the "first-class villain" of soap as: "Ruthless magnate. Serial groom. Charming rogue. Unrepentant schemer. Demanding paterfamilias. Defier of death. Tough, impatient, decisive, magnetic and infuriating. The blackest of blackguards." A writer for Inside Soap magazine warned that "soap psychos" are often overly keen on their partners, keep them separated from their families, have strange things hidden in secret rooms, will attempt to kill their partner's ex-partner, and are fond of fire or high places and named a number of characters from EastEnders, Emmerdale and Coronation Street who have behaved in such ways. Debra Hale, writing about the fate of villains for the Associated Press, said that "Sometimes, a villain becomes so evil he's beyond redemption and must be killed or imprisoned", but noted that "some villains are just too delectable to kill." The following lists soap opera characters who have been described as villainous, evil, bad guys or baddies.

Title: List of longest-serving soap opera actors
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_longest-serving_soap_opera_actors
Excerpt: Soap operas, a serialised drama produced for radio, television and internet streaming, are specifically and uniquely known for their ensemble casts and long-running characters. Many of these characters have stayed in their respective series for decades, often played by the same actor. The following is a list of the longest-serving actors from soap operas all over the world. It details those actors with ten or more years spent on one year-round or stripped soap opera, despite itinerant breaks and in some cases with the actor portraying multiple roles. 
As of 2026, William Roache holds the Guinness World Record for the longest-serving actor in a television soap opera, having played Ken Barlow on Coronation Street since 1960.

Title: Holby City series 13
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holby_City_series_13
Excerpt: The thirteenth series of the British medical drama television series Holby City began airing in the United Kingdom on BBC One on 19 October 2010, and ran for 52 episodes, concluding on 11 October 2011.

Title: List of EastEnders characters introduced in 2026
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_EastEnders_characters_introduced_in_2026
Excerpt: EastEnders is a BBC soap opera that first aired on 19 February 1985. This is a list of characters who have debuted or are set to debut in 2026. The first character to appear in 2026 is Bea Pollard, portrayed by Ronni Ancona, who made her debut in January. Dawn Steele joined the soap in March, portraying Sandra Goodwin, the adoptive mother of Josh Goodwin (Joshua Vaughan). In April, Ivy Knight-Mitchell was introduced; she is the daughter of Nicola Mitchell (Laura Doddington) and George Knight (Colin Salmon). Bruce (Tyler Kinhorn), the probation officer for Eddie Knight (Christopher Fairbank), debuted in May, followed by gangster Russell Delaney (Anthony Skordi). Sheila Atkins (Sheila Ruskin), the grandmother of serial killer Gray Atkins (Toby-Alexander Smith), first appeared in June, as well as Ria Virdi (Aaria Sharma), the foster daughter of  Suki (Balvinder Sopal) and Eve Panesar-Unwin (Heather Peace). In July, the arrivals of DC Craig Ingram (Matthew James-Bailey) and Clive Masters (Jason Durr) took place. August introduced Nicola Mitchell's extended family, the Hawkins. This introduction began with her sisters, Gemma (Patricia Potter) and Jodie (Anna Constable), along with their mother Rose (Marian McLoughlin). They were later joined by Gemma's husband, Ned (Jamie Bamber), and their son, Ryder Hawkins (Felix Uff). Additionally, Darnell Larson Jr (Christopher Colquhoun), the long-lost half-brother of Denise Fox (Diane Parish), and his daughter, Grace Larson (Krysstina Frempong), were also introduced. In addition to the aforementioned arrivals, several other characters appear throughout the year.