Title: Mako (actor)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mako_(actor)
Excerpt: Makoto Iwamatsu (岩松 信, Iwamatsu Makoto; December 10, 1933 – July 21, 2006) was a Japanese-American actor, credited mononymously in almost all of his acting roles as simply Mako (マコ;  MAH-koh). His career in film, on television, and on stage spanned five decades and 165 productions. He was nominated for an Academy Award, Golden Globe Award, and a Tony Award.
Born and raised in Kobe, Mako moved to the United States after the Second World War, where his dissident parents had moved to escape political persecution. After serving with the U.S. Army during the Korean War, he trained in acting at the Pasadena Playhouse and later co-founded the East West Players. His role as Po-Han (his second credited role on film) in the 1966 film The Sand Pebbles saw him nominated for the Academy Award and the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor.
His other various roles included Kichijiro in the 1971 film adaptation of Silence, Oomiak "The Fearless One" in The Island at the Top of the World (1974), Akiro the Wizard in Conan the Barbarian (1982) and Conan the Destroyer (1984), and Kungo Tsarong in Seven Years in Tibet (1997). He was part of the original cast of Stephen Sondheim's 1976 Broadway musical Pacific Overtures, which earned him a Tony Award nomination for Best Actor in a Musical. Later in his career, he became well known for his voice-acting roles, including Mr. Yamaguchi in Rugrats in Paris: The Movie, Aku in the first four seasons of Samurai Jack (2001–04), and Iroh in the first two seasons of Avatar: The Last Airbender (2005–06).
He died on July 21, 2006, at the age of 72 from esophageal cancer.

Title: List of actors who have played multiple roles in the same film
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_actors_who_have_played_multiple_roles_in_the_same_film
Excerpt: This is a list of actors who have played multiple roles in the same film. This does not include:

Actors who play a character with multiple names and/or a secret identity (e.g. superheroes);
Actors who play multiple copies of a single character (e.g. Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith in The Matrix franchise). However, dual roles (e.g. Jeff Bridges as Kevin Flynn and Clu in Tron) and clone characters (e.g. Temuera Morrison as Jango Fett and the Clone troopers in Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones) are included in this list;
Voice actors who do not physically appear on screen in multiple roles (e.g. in The Lord of the Rings film trilogy, John Rhys-Davies portrays Gimli on screen, but Treebeard is only voiced by him);
Non-speaking extras, background artists or stock characters (e.g. Redshirts);
Compilation films (e.g. Charlie Chaplin Festival), or anthology films with separate, unconnected stories (e.g. Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask)).

Title: Creation of the Gods I: Kingdom of Storms
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creation_of_the_Gods_I:_Kingdom_of_Storms
Excerpt: Creation of the Gods I: Kingdom of Storms (Chinese: 封神第一部：朝歌风云) is a 2023 Chinese epic fantasy film directed by Wuershan. The first film in the Creation of the Gods trilogy, adapted from the 16th-century fantasy novel Investiture of the Gods written by the Ming dynasty author Xu Zhonglin, it features an ensemble cast, including Fei Xiang, Li Xuejian, Huang Bo, Yu Shi, Chen Muchi, Narana Erdyneeva, and Xia Yu. The first film mainly narrates the fantastic and fictitious version of the political fallout following the ascension of the last king of Shang dynasty.
The film was released in China on July 20, 2023. As of January 2025, it is the 28th highest-grossing film ever in China, and the trilogy is considered to be the most ambitious and expensive Chinese production ever made. It won several accolades, including the 2023 Golden Rooster Award for Best Picture, and was nominated for the 2023 Golden Deer Award. Following its important success in its origin country, it was released in the USA by Well Go USA on September 22, 2023 and later internationally. It received mixed reviews from critics.
A sequel, Creation of the Gods II: Demon Force, released on January 29, 2025 (Chinese New Year), focusses on Xiqi's defense against Shang's attack. The final film in the trilogy, Creation Under Heaven, will feature Xiqi's counterattack, eventual victory and establishment of the Zhou dynasty.

Title: Sinners (2025 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sinners_(2025_film)
Excerpt: Sinners is a 2025 American horror film produced, written, and directed by Ryan Coogler. Set in 1932 in the Mississippi Delta, it stars Michael B. Jordan in dual roles as criminal twin brothers who return to their hometown in the Jim Crow South, where they are confronted by a supernatural evil. The film co-stars Hailee Steinfeld, Miles Caton (in his film debut), Jack O'Connell, Wunmi Mosaku, Jayme Lawson, Omar Benson Miller, and Delroy Lindo.
Coogler began developing Sinners through his production company Proximity Media, with Jordan cast in the lead role. The project was announced in January 2024, and after a bidding war, Warner Bros. Pictures acquired distribution rights the following month. Additional roles were cast in April. Principal photography took place from April to July 2024. Longtime Coogler collaborator Ludwig Göransson composed the film's score and served as an executive producer.
Sinners premiered on April 3, 2025 at AMC Lincoln Square in New York City, and was theatrically released in United States on April 18, 2025. It received critical acclaim and was a commercial success, grossing $370 million worldwide against a budget of $90–100 million. The National Board of Review and the American Film Institute listed it among the top ten films of 2025. Sinners garnered many accolades, including a record-breaking 16 nominations at the 98th Academy Awards, winning four: Best Actor (Jordan), Best Original Screenplay (Coogler), Best Cinematography (Autumn Durald Arkapaw, the first woman to win the award), and Best Original Score (Göransson). It also received 13 BAFTA Awards nominations, winning three, including Coogler's win for Best Original Screenplay; four Critics' Choice Awards; two Golden Globe Awards; two Actor Awards (including Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture); and a historic 18 nominations and 13 wins at the 57th NAACP Image Awards, including the NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Motion Picture.

Title: 2026 in film
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_in_film
Excerpt: 2026 in film is an overview of events in the film industry scheduled to occur in 2026. Best Picture Academy Award-winners All Quiet on the Western Front and Cimarron entered the public domain this year.