Title: The Hague
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hague
Excerpt: The Hague (Dutch: Den Haag, short for 's-Gravenhage) is the capital city of the South Holland province of the Netherlands. With a population of over half a million, it is the third-largest city in the Netherlands. Situated on the west coast facing the North Sea, The Hague is the country's administrative centre and its seat of government, and has been described as the country's de facto capital since the time of the Dutch Republic, while Amsterdam is the official capital of the Netherlands.
The Hague is the core municipality of the Greater The Hague urban area containing over 800,000 residents, and is also part of the Rotterdam–The Hague metropolitan area, which, with a population of approximately 2.6 million, is the largest metropolitan area of the Netherlands. The city is also part of the Randstad region, one of the largest conurbations in Europe.
The Hague is the seat of the Cabinet, the States General, the Supreme Court, and the Council of State of the Netherlands. King Willem-Alexander officially lives in the Huis ten Bosch and works at the Noordeinde Palace together with Queen Máxima. Most foreign embassies in the Netherlands are in the city. The Hague is also home to the headquarters of many Dutch companies, with Shell plc having major offices in the city as well. The Royal Library of the Netherlands is also located there. The Hague's coastal area includes the popular seaside resort Scheveningen.
The Hague is known as the global hub of international law and arbitration. The International Court of Justice, the main judicial arm of the United Nations, is based in the city, as are the International Criminal Court, the Permanent Court of Arbitration, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, Europol, and approximately 200 other international governmental organizations. The name "The Hague" is commonly used metonymically to refer to either of the international courts that reside in the city. The city has hosted several major international conferences, including the 2014 Nuclear Security Summit and the 2025 NATO Summit.

Title: Poblacion, Makati
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poblacion,_Makati
Excerpt: Poblacion is one of the 23 barangays of Makati, Philippines. It is centered on the city's historic poblacion area and serves as the second most important commercial center in Makati behind the Makati Central Business District. It is also the city's center of government, and known for its culture, history and entertainment. It is a major business district of Metro Manila.
Poblacion belongs to the 1st Congressional District of Makati. It is bounded by Nicanor Garcia Street, Antipolo Street, and Barangay Valenzuela to the west, Kalayaan Avenue and Bel-Air Village to the south, Estrella Street and Guadalupe Viejo to the west, and the Pasig River to the north. It is also home to the upscale Rockwell Center and Century City developments.
It has a total land area of 1.0342 square kilometers (0.3993 sq mi), which constitutes 5.69% of the total land area of Makati. 5.71% or 16,706 of Makati residents also live in this area, with a population density of 16,000 inhabitants per square kilometer or 41,000 inhabitants per square mile.

Title: Nightlife in Belgrade
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nightlife_in_Belgrade
Excerpt: The vibrant and dynamic nightlife in Belgrade achieved international prominence in the early 21st century. Belgrade, the capital of Serbia, gained a reputation both due to the traditional nightlife, mostly represented by the kafanas, and the contemporary, modern nightlife, especially including splavovi, barges and floats adapted into the clubs and cafés. Belgrade often makes the lists of the cities with best clubbing and partying, discreetly shaping itself into the fun and accommodating metropolis.
The splavovi (singular splav) are located along both banks of the Sava, with numerous clubs along the shores of Ada Ciganlija, and the right bank of the Danube. Despite the modern nightlife developed in time into various varieties to appeal to the foreign visitors and younger demographics, Skadarlija, a Bohemian quarter with traditional kafanas still remains one of the most visited Belgrade attractions, second only to the Belgrade Fortress.
The city is especially popular in the surrounding region, with numerous weekend-visitors. The main appeals to the tourists include: generally good knowledge of foreign languages or lack of language barrier in the case of the former Yugoslavia; friendly atmosphere; abundant number of venues (bars, clubs, cafés, kafanas, restaurants); quality cuisine; relatively low prices of the alcohol, especially from the perspective of foreign visitors; lack of the nightlife regulations or the poor enforcement of the existing ones.
The growing popularity of Belgrade as fun and entertainment hotspot, especially the "crazy splavovi", garnered criticism in time. Though still described as having the "legacy as an intellectual hangout", and including the successful artistic revitalization of quarters like Savamala or Dorćol, the prevailing image of Belgrade, even officially advertised as such, is that of a city of cheap fun. This typecast promotion made Belgrade's nightlife a focal point for the people searching for low-priced hedonistic, carefree distraction, having a much wider social impact: heavy drinking, drug abuse, crime, prostitution, influence on teenagers and youth and a development of the "reality TV shows influenced splavovi-culture".

Title: 2034 Winter Olympics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2034_Winter_Olympics
Excerpt: The 2034 Winter Olympics, officially the XXVII Olympic Winter Games, and branded as Utah 2034, is a future international multi-sport event scheduled to take place in the U.S. state of Utah from February 10 to 26, 2034.
The Future Host Commission of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) initially nominated Salt Lake City as its preferred candidate on November 29, 2023. The bid was approved on July 24, 2024, during the 142nd IOC Session in Paris, France, and the games were eventually branded to Utah 2034 in November 2025 to better reflect the surrounding areas also hosting venues. They will be the fifth Winter Olympics, and tenth overall, to be hosted by the United States; having previously hosted the 2002 Winter Olympics, Salt Lake City will join St. Moritz, Lake Placid, Innsbruck, and Cortina d'Ampezzo as the fifth city to have hosted or co-hosted multiple Winter Olympic Games. This will also be the first Olympics held in the United States that will be branded under a host U.S. state instead of a city.

Title: Hôtel de Besenval
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H%C3%B4tel_de_Besenval
Excerpt: The Hôtel de Besenval (French pronunciation: [otɛl d(ə) bəzɑ̃val]) is a historic hôtel particulier in Paris, dating largely from the 18th century, with a cour d'honneur and a large English landscape garden, an architectural style commonly known as entre cour et jardin. This refers to a residence located between a front courtyard and a rear garden. The building is listed as a monument historique by decree of 20 October 1928 (the historic parts, reference: PA00088705). It has housed the Embassy of the Swiss Confederation and the residence of the Swiss ambassador to France since 1938. The residence is named after its most famous former owner: Pierre Victor, Baron de Besenval de Brunstatt, usually just referred to as Baron de Besenval (the suffix Brunstatt refers to the former barony).