Title: Abdullah the Butcher
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abdullah_the_Butcher
Excerpt: Lawrence Robert Shreve (born January 11, 1941), better known by the ring name Abdullah the Butcher, is a Canadian retired professional wrestler. He has a reputation for being involved in some of the most violent and bloody hardcore wrestling matches of all time. Over his time in wrestling he was given the moniker of "Madman from Sudan".

One of Shreve's trademarks is a series of divot-like scars on his head that he has due to excessive use of blading during his career. The scars are so deep that, according to Mick Foley, Shreve is able to put gambling chips into them. An amateur martial artist, Shreve also has knowledge of judo and karate, often incorporating this knowledge in his wrestling matches through throws and chops.

Title: Dan Severn
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dan_Severn
Excerpt: Daniel DeWayne Severn (born June 8, 1958), nicknamed "the Beast", is an American retired professional wrestler, mixed martial artist and amateur wrestler. A UFC Hall of Fame member, Severn is considered one of the leading pioneers of mixed martial arts and the first true world-class wrestler to compete in the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). He is best known for his success in the early years of the UFC where he became the first UFC Triple Crown champion in history by winning the UFC 5 tournament, Ultimate Ultimate 1995, and UFC Superfight Championship. Severn has also competed in the International Vale Tudo Championship (IVC), Pride Fighting Championships, Fighting Network Rings, World Extreme Cagefighting (WEC), King of the Cage, Maximum Fighting Championship (MFC) and Cage Rage, and holds a professional MMA record of 101–19–7.
In professional wrestling, Severn is a two-time world champion by winning the NWA World's Heavyweight Championship twice, with his first reign lasting for over four years, and an NWA Hall of Fame member. During his almost year-long tenure with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE), he was managed by Jim Cornette. He is the first man to compete in UFC and WWF at the same time and held the NWA and UFC championships at the same time. Severn is a world record holder for holding 13 championships. He is also the only person to be honored by the George Tragos/Lou Thesz Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame three times.
In amateur wrestling, Severn was a two time All-American at Arizona State University and a U.S. Olympic Team alternate.

Title: List of tallest people
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tallest_people
Excerpt: This is a list of the tallest people, verified by Guinness World Records or other reliable sources.
According to Guinness World Records, Robert Wadlow of the United States (1918–1940) was the tallest person in recorded history, measuring 272 cm (8 ft 11 in) at the time of his death.
There are reports about taller individuals but most claims are unverified or erroneous. Since antiquity, discoveries have been reported of gigantic human skeletons. Originally thought to belong to mythical giants, these bones were later identified as the exaggerated remains of prehistoric animals, usually whales or elephants. Regular reports in American newspapers in the 18th and 19th centuries of giant human skeletons may have inspired the case of the "petrified" Cardiff Giant, an archaeological hoax.

Title: List of people with given name Daniel
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_people_with_given_name_Daniel
Excerpt: This is a list of notable people with the given name Daniel:

Title: List of Kyokushin practitioners
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Kyokushin_practitioners
Excerpt: This is a list of highly notable practitioners of Kyokushin Karate.