Title: Knox County, Maine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knox_County,_Maine
Excerpt: Knox County is a county located in the state of Maine, United States. As of the 2020 census, the population was 40,607.  Its county seat is Rockland.  The county is named for Revolutionary War general and Secretary of War Henry Knox, who lived in the county from 1795 until his death in 1806. The county was established on April 1, 1860, and is the most recent county to be created in Maine. It was carved from parts of Waldo and Lincoln counties. The Union Fair, started in 1868, began as the efforts of the North Knox Agricultural and Horticultural Society.

Title: Rockport, Maine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rockport,_Maine
Excerpt: Rockport is a town in Knox County, Maine, United States. It is 35 miles (56.3 km) southeast of Augusta. The population was 3,644 at the 2020 census. Rockport is a popular tourist destination and art colony.

Title: Vinalhaven, Maine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vinalhaven,_Maine
Excerpt: Vinalhaven is a town in Knox County, Maine, United States. Its town limits include the island of Vinalhaven, the largest of the Fox Islands, and smaller islands, some accessible from Vinalhaven Island by bridge or causeway. The population was 1,279 at the 2020 census. It is home to a thriving lobster fishery and hosts a summer colony. Since there is no bridge to the island, Vinalhaven is primarily accessible from Rockland via an approximately 75-minute state ferry ride across West Penobscot Bay, or by air taxi from Knox County Regional Airport via Penobscot Island Air.

Title: Washington, Maine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washington,_Maine
Excerpt: Washington, officially the Town of Washington, is a town in Knox County, Maine, United States. The population was 1,590 at the 2020 United States census.

Title: Henry Knox
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Knox
Excerpt: Henry Knox (July 25, 1750 – October 25, 1806) was an American military officer, politician, bookseller, and a Founding Father of the United States. Knox, born in Boston, became a senior general of the Continental Army during the Revolutionary War, serving as chief of artillery in all of George Washington's campaigns. Following the war, he oversaw the War Department under the Articles of Confederation from 1785 to 1789. Washington appointed him the nation's first secretary of war, a position which he held from 1789 to 1794. He is well known today as the eponym of Fort Knox in Kentucky, which is often conflated with the adjacent United States Bullion Depository.
Knox was born and raised in Boston where he owned and operated a bookstore, cultivating an interest in military history and joining a local artillery company. He was also on the scene of the 1770 Boston Massacre. He was barely 25 when the Revolutionary War broke out in 1775, but he engineered the transport of what became the "noble train of artillery", British ordnance captured from Fort Ticonderoga in New York, which proved decisive in the British evacuation of Boston in early 1776. Knox quickly rose to become the chief artillery officer of the Continental Army.  In this role, he accompanied Washington on all of his campaigns and was engaged in the major actions of the war.  He established training centers for artillerymen and manufacturing facilities for weaponry that were valuable assets in winning the war for independence.
Knox saw himself as the embodiment of revolutionary republican ideals. In early 1783, as the war drew to a close, he initiated the concept of the Society of the Cincinnati, authoring its founding document and establishing the organization as a fraternal, hereditary society of veteran officers that survives to this day.
In 1785, the Congress of the Confederation appointed Knox as Secretary of War, where he dealt primarily with Indian affairs. Following the adoption of the United States Constitution in 1789, he became President Washington's Secretary of War.  In this role he oversaw the development of coastal fortifications, worked to improve the preparedness of local militia, and directed the nation's military operations in the Northwest Indian War.  He was formally responsible for the nation's relationship with the Indian population in the territories that it claimed, articulating a policy which established federal government supremacy over the states in relation to Indian nations and calling for treating Indian nations as sovereign.  Knox's idealistic views on the subject were frustrated by ongoing illegal settlements and fraudulent land transfers of Indian lands. He retired to Thomaston, District of Maine, in 1795, where he oversaw the rise of many inventive business ventures built on borrowed money. He died in 1806 just as his financial situation began to reverse.