Title: Mall of America
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mall_of_America
Excerpt: Mall of America (MOA) is a super-regional shopping mall and entertainment complex in Bloomington, Minnesota. Located within the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area, the mall lies southeast of the junction of Interstate 494 and Minnesota State Highway 77, north of the Minnesota River, and across the Interstate from the Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport. It opened in August 1992 on the former site of the Metropolitan Stadium, and is the largest mall in the United States, the largest in the Western Hemisphere, and the 12th largest shopping mall in the world.
The mall was developed by the Canadian real estate firm Triple Five Group, led by the Ghermezian family, in a joint venture with Melvin Simon & Associates (later Simon DeBartolo Group, now Simon Property Group) and Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA-CREF, now simply TIAA). Simon Property Group acquired TIAA's shares in the property in January 1999, leading to the Ghermezian family to sue them. Then, in September 2003, Simon was forced to sell its disputed stake and management role to Triple Five Group, which eventually gained full control of Mall of America in November 2006. As of September 2025, approximately 32 million people visit the mall annually, 80% of whom are from Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Nebraska, the Dakotas, Illinois and Ohio, making the mall effectively attract more tourists than Walt Disney World and Disneyland combined. Triple Five Group also owns the second largest mall in the United States, American Dream in Bergen County, New Jersey, and the largest mall in Canada, being West Edmonton Mall in Alberta.

Title: Chattanooga, Tennessee
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chattanooga,_Tennessee
Excerpt: Chattanooga ( CHAT-ə-NOO-gə) is a city in Hamilton County, Tennessee, United States, and its county seat. It is located along the Tennessee River and borders Georgia to the south. The population was 181,099 at the 2020 census, and was estimated at 191,496 in 2024. It is Tennessee's fourth-most populous city and one of the two principal cities of East Tennessee, along with Knoxville. It anchors the Chattanooga metropolitan area, Tennessee's fourth-largest metropolitan statistical area, as well as a larger three-state area that includes southeastern Tennessee, northwestern Georgia, and northeastern Alabama.
Chattanooga was a crucial city during the American Civil War due to the multiple railroads that converge there. After the war, the railroads allowed for the city to grow into one of the Southeastern United States' largest heavy industrial hubs. Today, major industry that drives the economy includes automotive, advanced manufacturing, food and beverage production, healthcare, insurance, tourism, and back office and corporate headquarters. Chattanooga remains a transit hub in the present day, served by multiple Interstate highways and railroad lines. It is 118 miles (190 km) northwest of Atlanta, Georgia, 112 miles (180 km) southwest of Knoxville, Tennessee, 134 miles (216 km) southeast of Nashville, Tennessee, 102 miles (164 km) east-northeast of Huntsville, Alabama, and 147 miles (237 km) northeast of Birmingham, Alabama.
Divided by the Tennessee River, Chattanooga is at the transition between the ridge-and-valley Appalachians and the Cumberland Plateau, both of which are part of the larger Appalachian Mountains. Its official nickname is the "Scenic City", alluding to the surrounding mountains, ridges, and valleys. Unofficial nicknames include "River City", "Chatt", "Nooga", "Chattown", and "Gig City", the latter referring to Chattanooga's claim of having the fastest internet service in the Western Hemisphere.
Chattanooga is internationally known from the 1941 hit song "Chattanooga Choo Choo" by Glenn Miller and his orchestra. It is home to the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga (UTC) and Chattanooga State Community College.

Title: Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minneapolis%E2%80%93Saint_Paul_International_Airport
Excerpt: Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport (IATA: MSP, ICAO: KMSP, FAA LID: MSP) – also less commonly known as Wold–Chamberlain Field – is a joint civil-military public international airport serving the Twin Cities in the U.S. state of Minnesota. It is located in Fort Snelling Unorganized Territory and sections of the airport border the city limits of Minneapolis and Richfield; however, the airport property is not part of any city or school district. Although situated within the unorganized territory, the airport is centrally located within 10 miles (16 kilometers; 9 nautical miles) of both downtown Minneapolis and downtown Saint Paul. In addition to primarily hosting commercial flights from major American and some international airlines, the airport is also home to several United States Air Force and Minnesota Air National Guard operations. The airport is also used by a variety of air cargo operators. MSP, along with Detroit Metropolitan Airport, regularly contends for the busiest airport in the Upper Midwest.
A joint civil-military airport, MSP is home to the Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport Joint Air Reserve Station, supporting both Air Force Reserve Command and Air National Guard flight operations. Units stationed there include the 934th Airlift Wing (934 AW). MSP covers 2,930 acres (1,186 ha) of land. The airport generates an estimated $15.9 billion a year for the Twin Cities' economy and supports 87,000 workers.
MSP is a major hub for Delta Air Lines. It also serves as the home airport for Minnesota-based Sun Country Airlines and Endeavor Air, a Delta subsidiary. Delta Air Lines and its regional affiliates account for about 65% of the airport's passenger traffic. The airport is operated by the Metropolitan Airports Commission, which also handles the operation of six smaller airports in the region.

Title: Fort Dodge Regional Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fort_Dodge_Regional_Airport
Excerpt: Fort Dodge Regional Airport (IATA: FOD, ICAO: KFOD, FAA LID: FOD) is a city owned public use airport located three nautical miles (6 km) north of the central business district of Fort Dodge, a city in Webster County, Iowa, United States. It is mostly used for general aviation, but is also served by one commercial airline United Airlines, a service that is subsidized by the federal government's Essential Air Service program at a cost of $3,892,174 (per year).
The National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2021–2025 categorized it as a non-primary commercial service airport.

Title: Alpena County Regional Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alpena_County_Regional_Airport
Excerpt: Alpena County Regional Airport (IATA: APN, ICAO: KAPN, FAA LID: APN) is a county-owned, public-use, joint civil-military airport in Alpena County, Michigan, United States. The airport is located six nautical miles (7 mi, 11 km) west of the central business district of Alpena, off of M-32 . It straddles the boundary between Maple Ridge Township on the north and Wilson Township on the south. It is mostly used for general aviation, but is also served by one commercial airline, an affiliate of Delta Connection, with freight services provided by an affiliate of FedEx Feeder.
It is said to be the "Proud home of Alpena Combat Readiness Training Center," the host unit of the Michigan Air National Guard's Alpena Air National Guard Base.
As per Federal Aviation Administration records, the airport had 7,519 passenger boardings (enplanements) in calendar year 2008, 7,638 enplanements in 2009, and 8,737 in 2010. It is included in the FAA National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2017–2021, in which it is categorized as a non-hub primary commercial service facility.
The airport regularly hosts airshows and aircraft displays of antique aircraft. Aircraft like the B-29 Superfortress and the B-24 Liberator have made stops at the airport for access by the public.