Title: Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charlie_and_the_Chocolate_Factory_(film)
Excerpt: Charlie and the Chocolate Factory is a 2005 musical fantasy film directed by Tim Burton and written by John August, based on the 1964 children's novel of the same name by Roald Dahl. The film stars Johnny Depp as Willy Wonka and Freddie Highmore as Charlie Bucket, alongside David Kelly, Helena Bonham Carter, Noah Taylor, Missi Pyle, James Fox, Deep Roy, and Christopher Lee. The storyline follows Charlie as he wins a contest along with four other children and is led by Wonka on a tour of his chocolate factory.
Development for a second adaptation of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory began in 1991, which resulted in Warner Bros. Pictures providing the Dahl estate with total artistic control. Prior to Burton's involvement, multiple directors and actors were either in discussion with or considered by the studio to play Wonka. Burton immediately brought regular collaborators Depp and Danny Elfman aboard. Charlie and the Chocolate Factory represents the first musical film directed by Burton and the first time since 1993's The Nightmare Before Christmas that Elfman contributed to a film score using written songs and his vocals.
Filming took place from June to December 2004 at Pinewood Studios in the United Kingdom. Inspired by the book's emphasis on texture, Burton primarily used built sets and practical effects rather than computer-generated environments. Wonka's Chocolate Room was constructed on the 007 Stage at Pinewood, complete with a faux chocolate waterfall and river. Squirrels were trained from birth for Veruca Salt's elimination from the tour. Actor Deep Roy performed each Oompa-Loompa individually rather than one performance duplicated digitally. Burton shot the film simultaneously alongside the stop-motion animated film Corpse Bride, which he also directed.
Willy Wonka-themed chocolate bars were sold, and a Golden Ticket contest was launched as part of the film's marketing campaign. Early plans to promote the film with a Broadway theatre musical were not realized. Charlie and the Chocolate Factory premiered on July 10, 2005, and was released in the United States on July 15 to positive critical reviews, which commended it for its visual appeal and dark tone. It was a box office success, grossing US$475 million and becoming the eighth-highest-grossing film worldwide in 2005. The film received a nomination for Best Costume Design at the 78th Academy Awards, while Depp was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Musical or Comedy. It remains Tim Burton's second-highest-grossing film to date.

Title: Laura Esquivel
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laura_Esquivel
Excerpt: Laura Beatriz Esquivel Valdés (born 30 September 1950) is a Mexican novelist, screenwriter and former politician. Her first novel Como agua para chocolate (Like Water for Chocolate) became a bestseller in Mexico and the United States, and was later developed into an award-winning film.

Title: Like Water for Chocolate (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Like_Water_for_Chocolate_(album)
Excerpt: Like Water for Chocolate is the fourth studio album by American rapper Common, released on March 28, 2000, through MCA Records. It was Common's first major label album and was both a critical and commercial breakthrough, receiving widespread acclaim from major magazine publications and selling 70,000 copies in its first week. The album was certified Gold on August 11, 2000, by the Recording Industry Association of America. According to Nielsen SoundScan, the album had sold 748,000 copies by March 2005. The video for "The Light" was frequently shown on MTV, adding to Common's exposure. The album also formally marked the formation of the Soulquarians, a collective composed of  Questlove (of The Roots), J Dilla (formerly of Slum Village), keyboardist James Poyser, soul artist D'Angelo and bassist Pino Palladino, among numerous other collaborators. This group of musicians would also be featured on Common's next album, Electric Circus.
The album's cover photo, 1956 Alabama by Gordon Parks, is a photo of a young black woman in Alabama, dressed for church, and drinking from a "Colored Only" drinking fountain.

Title: Like Water for Chocolate (novel)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Like_Water_for_Chocolate_(novel)
Excerpt: Like Water for Chocolate (Spanish: Como agua para chocolate) is a 1989 novel by Mexican novelist and screenwriter Laura Esquivel. It was first published in Mexico in 1989. The English version of the novel was published in 1992.
The novel follows the story of a young woman named Tita, who longs for her beloved, Pedro, but can never have him because of her mother's upholding of the family tradition: the youngest daughter cannot marry, but instead must take care of her mother until she dies. Tita is only able to express herself when she cooks.
The book has inspired a 1992 film of the same name, a 2022 ballet, and a 2024 TV series; 2 sequels were written by Esquivel. It was named by Spanish periodical El Mundo as one of the best Spanish-language novels of the 20th century.

Title: Controversies of Nestlé
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Controversies_of_Nestl%C3%A9
Excerpt: Nestlé, the biggest food company in the world, has been involved in a significant number of controversies and has been criticized a number of times for its business practices. Since the 1970s, Nestlé has faced criticism for: 

forced labour
modern slavery
child labour
incidents of contaminated and infested food products
deliberately false and misleading claims in marketing of breast milk substitutes, particularly in developing countries
preventing access to non-bottled water in impoverished countries
issues around animal welfare commitments
actively spreading disinformation about recycling
illegal water-pumping from drought-stricken Native American  reservations
price fixing
union-busting activity
deforestation
lobbying to support misinformation about infant and women's nutrition. In 2014, Nestlé alone spent an estimated $160,000 on lobbying related to the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children.