Title: Insurance
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insurance
Excerpt: Insurance is a means of protection from financial loss in which, in exchange for a fee, a party agrees to compensate another party in the event of a certain loss, damage, or injury. It is a form of risk management, primarily used to protect against the risk of a contingent or uncertain loss.
An entity which provides insurance is known as an insurer, insurance company, insurance carrier, or underwriter. A person or entity who buys insurance is known as a policyholder, while a person or entity covered under the policy is called an insured. The insurance transaction involves the policyholder assuming a guaranteed, known, and relatively small loss in the form of a payment to the insurer (a premium) in exchange for the insurer's promise to compensate the insured in the event of a covered loss. The loss may or may not be financial, but it must always be reducible to financial terms. Furthermore, it usually involves something in which the insured has an insurable interest established by ownership, possession, or pre-existing relationship.
The insured receives a contract, called the insurance policy, which details the conditions and circumstances under which the insurer will compensate the insured, or their designated beneficiary or assignee. The amount of money charged by the insurer to the policyholder for the coverage set forth in the insurance policy is called the premium. If the insured experiences a loss which is potentially covered by the insurance policy, the insured submits a claim to the insurer for processing by a claims adjuster. A mandatory out-of-pocket expense required by an insurance policy before an insurer will pay a claim is called a deductible or excess (or if required by a health insurance policy, a copayment). The insurer may mitigate its own risk by taking out reinsurance, whereby another insurance company agrees to carry some of the risks, especially if the primary insurer deems the risk too large for it to carry.

Title: ING Group
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ING_Group
Excerpt: The ING Group (Dutch: ING Groep N.V.) is a Dutch multinational banking and financial services corporation headquartered in Amsterdam. Its primary businesses are retail banking, direct banking, commercial banking, investment banking, wholesale banking, private banking, and asset management. With total assets of €1,316 billion (as of March 2026), it consistently ranks among the largest banks globally.
The ING is the Dutch member of the Inter-Alpha Group of Banks, a co-operative consortium of 11 prominent European banks. ING Bank has been a member in the list of global systemically important banks since the list was created in 2011. It has been designated as a Significant Institution since the entry into force of European Banking Supervision in late 2014, and as a consequence is directly supervised by the European Central Bank.
As of the first quarter of 2026, ING served 40.8 million customers across nine retail markets and a wider wholesale banking footprint. It is a component of the EURO STOXX 50 stock market index. As of December 2019, the long-term debt for the company is €150 billion. ING is an abbreviation of Internationale Nederlanden Groep (lit. 'International Netherlands Group'). The ING's logo alludes to the Dutch symbolism used by several of ING's corporate predecessors, including Postbank. Its original blue lion symbol was refreshed in 2000, and later replaced by the orange variant between 2007 and 2009.

Title: Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nationwide_Mutual_Insurance_Company
Excerpt: Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and affiliated companies, commonly shortened to Nationwide, is a group of large U.S. insurance and financial services companies based in Columbus, Ohio. The company also operates regional headquarters in Scottsdale, Arizona and Des Moines, Iowa. Nationwide currently has approximately 24,000 employees, and is ranked 69th in the 2026 Fortune 500 list.
Nationwide Financial Services (NFS), a component of the group, was partially floated on the New York Stock Exchange prior to being repurchased by Nationwide Mutual in 2009. It had owned the majority of NFS common stock since it had gone public in 1997.

Title: National Disability Insurance Scheme
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Disability_Insurance_Scheme
Excerpt: The National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) is a scheme of the Australian Government that funds reasonable and necessary supports associated with significant and permanent disability for people under 65 years old. The scheme was introduced in 2013 following the "Make It Real" community campaign and advocacy from disability groups, and is governed by the National Disability Insurance Scheme Act 2013 ("NDIS Act"). The scheme is administered by the National Disability Insurance Agency (NDIA) as part of the Department of Health, Disability and Ageing and overseen by the NDIS Quality and Safeguards Commission.
The NDIS model allocates funding to an individual, with the individual, their guardian or a private "plan manager" purchasing goods and services from suppliers. The scheme is entirely publicly funded and not means-tested, with recipients not purchasing or contributing to the scheme directly. The NDIS is independent of the Disability Support Pension and any state and territory disability programs, although NDIS navigation services may help individuals access these supports. The NDIS exclusively funds disability supports, not healthcare-associated costs. These remain publicly funded under Medicare and state and territory government health services.
In 2024, legislation was passed to reform the NDIS to better manage the cost of the program and the efficacy of supports provided. The package provides around A$500 million to improve regulatory and evidence-based purchasing mechanisms, revise local linkage services, and reform NDIS pricing to improve transparency and predictability. The legislation was introduced in response to the Independent NDIS Review, concerns that some NDIS participants and suppliers were engaging in fraud, and an increase in low-value supports being funded by the scheme.

Title: Corebridge Financial
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corebridge_Financial
Excerpt: Corebridge Financial, Inc. is an American financial services company. It provides annuities, life insurance, retirement plans, wealth management, and other financial services through its four core businesses—individual retirement, life insurance, retirement services, and institutional markets.
Corebridge was formed by an AIG spin-off of the company via IPO in 2022. In 2024, Nippon Life Insurance Company acquired an equity interest in Corebridge Financial from AIG. In 2025, the company joined the Fortune 500.