Title: Naushad
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naushad
Excerpt: Naushad Ali (25 December 1919 – 5 May 2006) was an Indian composer for Hindi films. He is widely considered to be one of the greatest and foremost music directors of the Hindi film industry. He is respectfully remembered as "Moseeqar-e-Azam" (The great Musician) in the Hindi film industry. He is particularly known for popularising the use of classical music in films.
His first film as an independent music director was Prem Nagar in 1940. His first musically successful film was Rattan (1944), followed by 35 silver jubilee hits, 12 golden jubilee and 3 diamond jubilee mega successes. Naushad was conferred the Dadasaheb Phalke Award and the Padma Bhushan in 1981 and 1992 respectively for his contribution to the Hindi film industry.

Title: K. L. Saigal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K._L._Saigal
Excerpt: Kundan Lal Saigal, often abbreviated as K. L. Saigal (11 April 1904 – 18 January 1947), was an Indian singer and actor who worked in Hindi cinema, which was centred in Calcutta (Kolkata) during his time, but is currently based in Bombay (Mumbai).
Saigal's unique voice, a blend of baritone and soft tenor, set the benchmark for many singers who followed him. Even today, it remains the gold standard, shining through despite the limitations of early and relatively primitive recording technology. Unlike other singers, he did not record songs for actors to lip-sync on screen. It was only in the final years of his career, from 1945 to 1947, that he recorded songs for studio release; these recordings were for his own performances as an on-screen actor. Thus, while most singers in Hindi cinema became playback singers, Saigal was not.

Title: Mela (1948 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mela_(1948_film)
Excerpt: Mela (transl. The Fair) is a 1948 Indian Hindi-language romantic tragedy film. It was produced by and directed by S.U. Sunny for Wadia Movietone. It starred Dilip Kumar, Nargis, Jeevan, Rehman and Nur Jehan. The film's music was composed by Naushad. Mukesh gave playback for Dilip in this film and one of the "Mukesh hits" was "Gaye Ja Geet Milan Ke". Mohammed Rafi's voice was used just once, for the popular song "Ye Zindagi Ke Mele", set in a fairground and picturised on a wandering mendicant at the start of the film. The lyrics of the songs were written by Shakeel Badayuni with story and dialogue by Azam Bazidpuri.
The musical film, set in a village milieu, was a tragic love story involving Manju and Mohan. Manju is married off to a seventy-year-old man, who declares that he didn't realise he was being married to someone so young. After the husband's death, the lovers meet and Manju dies accidentally. Mohan is convicted for her murder, and after spending twenty years in jail, he too falls off the cliff and dies when he follows Manju's spirit.

Title: G. M. Durrani
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G._M._Durrani
Excerpt: Ghulam Mustafa Durrani (1919 – 8 September 1988; sometimes known as G. M. Durrani) was an Indian radio drama artist, playback singer, actor and music director.

Title: Surendra (actor)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surendra_(actor)
Excerpt: Surendra (11 November 1910 – 11 September 1987; Surendra Nath Sharma) was an Indian singer-actor of Hindi films. Known by his mononym, Surendra was born and educated in Punjab to be a lawyer by profession. He came to Bombay to become a singer on the recommendation of a Delhi distributor and his friends. He was "picked" by Mehboob Khan whom he met at Sagar Movietone, to sing and act in films as an alternative to the then Calcutta-based singer-actor, K. L. Saigal. Surendra started his career with his debut starring role in Deccan Queen (1936), directed by Mehboob Khan. He soon became a part of Sagar Movietone when his song "Birha Ki Aag Lagi More Man Mein" from the film  became an "instant hit".