Title: Sarah Brightman
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarah_Brightman
Excerpt: Sarah Brightman (born 14 August 1960) is an English classical crossover soprano singer and actress.
Brightman began her career as a member of the dance troupe Hot Gossip and released several disco singles as a solo performer. In 1981, she made her West End musical theatre debut in Cats and met composer Andrew Lloyd Webber, whom she later married. She went on to star in several West End and Broadway musicals, including The Phantom of the Opera, where she originated the role of Christine Daaé. Her original London cast album of Phantom was released in CD format in 1987 and sold 40 million copies worldwide, making it the biggest-selling cast album ever.
After retiring from stage acting and divorcing Lloyd Webber, Brightman resumed her music career with former Enigma producer Frank Peterson, this time as a classical crossover artist. She has been credited as the creator and remains among the most prominent performers of this genre, with worldwide sales of more than 25 million albums and two million DVDs, establishing herself as the world's best-selling soprano.
Brightman's 1996 duet with the Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli, "Time to Say Goodbye", topped the charts all over Europe and became the highest and fastest-selling single of all time in Germany, where it stayed at the top of the charts for 14 consecutive weeks and sold over three million copies. It subsequently became an international success, selling 12 million copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling singles of all-time. She has collected over 200 gold and platinum record awards in 38 countries. In 2010, she was named by Billboard the fifth most influential and best-selling classical artist of the 2000s decade in the US and according to Nielsen SoundScan, she has sold 6.5 million albums in the country.
Brightman is the first artist to have been invited twice to perform the theme song at the Olympic Games, first at the 1992 Barcelona Olympic Games where she sang "Amigos Para Siempre" with the Spanish tenor José Carreras with an estimated global audience of one billion people, and 16 years later in 2008 in Beijing, this time with Chinese singer Liu Huan, performing the song "You and Me" to an estimated four billion people worldwide.
In 2012, Brightman was appointed as the UNESCO Artist for Peace for the period 2012–2014, for her "commitment to humanitarian and charitable causes, her contribution, throughout her artistic career, to the promotion of cultural dialogue and the exchanges among cultures, and her dedication to the ideals and aims of the Organization". Since 2010, Brightman has been Panasonic's global brand ambassador.

Title: Kennedy Center
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kennedy_Center
Excerpt: The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, commonly known as the Kennedy Center, is the national cultural center of the United States, serving as a "living memorial" to John F. Kennedy. Located on the eastern bank of the Potomac River in Washington, D.C., the center opened September 8, 1971, and hosts many genres of performance art, spanning theater, ballet, modern dance, classical music, jazz, pop, psychedelic, and folk music. The Kennedy Center is the residence of the National Symphony Orchestra.
Authorized by the National Cultural Center Act of 1958, which requires that its programming be sustained through private funds, the center represents a public–private partnership. Its activities include educational and outreach initiatives, almost entirely funded through ticket sales and gifts from individuals, corporations, and private foundations. The center receives annual federal funding to cover building maintenance and operations.
The original building, designed by Edward Durell Stone, is administered as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution. An extension designed by Steven Holl opened in 2019. In 1968, George London became the Kennedy Center's first executive director. In 1991, Lawrence Wilker became its first president. In 2014, Deborah Rutter became its third president and the first woman to hold the post.
In 2025, President Donald Trump dismissed the center's trustees and replaced them with people who elected him chairman and voted to add his name to the center, a move later determined to be illegal. Consequently, ticket sales declined, dozens of performances were canceled, and the Washington National Opera ended its half-century of residence. In February 2026, Trump said that the center would close in July for two years of renovations. In May 2026, US district judge Christopher R. "Casey" Cooper blocked the Kennedy Center from closing during its renovations and ordered that Trump's name be removed from the building, which occurred in June.

Title: Red Rocks Amphitheatre
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Rocks_Amphitheatre
Excerpt: Red Rocks Amphitheatre (also known colloquially as Red Rocks) is an open-air amphitheater near Morrison, Colorado, approximately ten miles (16 km) southwest of Denver. It is owned and operated by the city of  Denver. In addition to several other large sandstone formations nearby, the venue is best recognized by its two massive monoliths, named "Ship Rock" and "Creation Rock", as well as the smaller "Stage Rock", which together flank its 9,525 capacity seating area and naturally form the amphitheater. While the venue is primarily known for hosting concerts and music festivals, other events of various types and sizes are held throughout the year.
In 1957, the American Institute of Architects selected Red Rocks to be Colorado's entry at the National Gallery of Art for the AIA's Centennial Exhibition. In 1999, after Pollstar magazine awarded Red Rocks the annual honor of being the best small outdoor venue for the eleventh time, the magazine changed the name of the award to the "Red Rocks Award" and removed Red Rocks from the running.
Construction began in October 2020 to replace the existing stage roof and expand the structure's rigging capacity; the work was completed the following summer.

Title: Harpa (concert hall)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harpa_(concert_hall)
Excerpt: Harpa (Icelandic pronunciation: [ˈhar̥pa], English: Harp) is a concert hall and conference centre in Reykjavík, Iceland. The opening concert was held on 4 May 2011. The building features a distinctive colored glass façade inspired by the basalt landscape of Iceland.

Title: Logistics of the 2024 Republican National Convention
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logistics_of_the_2024_Republican_National_Convention
Excerpt: The 2024 Republican National Convention was held in Milwaukee, Wisconsin July 15–18, 2024. A large-scale event, the organization and facilitation of the convention involved complex and multifaceted logistics.
In April 2023, Milwaukee was selected to serve as the site of the convention. A key challenge of organizing the convention in Milwaukee was securing overnight accommodations for convention-related visitors. Milwaukee and its immediate metro area had fewer hotel rooms than is typical of a major party presidential convention host city.
Among the most complex aspects of logistics was security. The convention was a National Special Security Event (NSSE). Its security was coordinated by the Chicago ground office of the United States Secret Service, and required a significant number of non-local personnel for manpower. Extra public scrutiny was given to the convention's security after the Republican presidential nominee (Donald Trump) was the target of gunfire in an evident assassination attempt days before the convention. Convention-related protests occurred in Milwaukee, but were noted as being smaller in size than those seen at previous in-person major party conventions. Another major aspect of the convention's logistics was transportation. Adjustments were made by airlines to increase the number of passenger seats serving the city's Milwaukee Mitchell International Airport during the peak travel days of the convention. A significant amount of private aircraft traffic was also accommodated for the convention. Air travel out of the city after the convention was impacted by the 2024 CrowdStrike incident. Locally, adjustments were made to fixed bus routes due to vehicle restrictions in the perimeter of the convention's main venues.
Milwaukee received praise from convention goers for its performance as a host city. The convention, promised by officials to bring $200 million to the local economy, was criticized by many local businesses as failing to produce promised economic benefits in Milwaukee. Businesses in Chicago (the host of the 2024 Democratic Convention) are seen as having had greater success at booking convention-related reservations for the Democratic convention than businesses in Milwaukee were for the Republican convention.