Title: Chocolate
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chocolate
Excerpt: Chocolate is a food made from roasted and ground cocoa beans. It can be a liquid, solid, or paste. It is eaten on its own and used to flavor other foods. 
Cocoa beans are the processed seeds of the cacao tree (Theobroma cacao). They are usually fermented to develop the flavor, then dried, cleaned, and roasted. The shell is removed to reveal nibs, which are ground to chocolate liquor (unadulterated chocolate in rough form.) The liquor can be further processed into cocoa butter and cocoa powder, or shaped and sold as unsweetened baking chocolate. By adding sugar, sweetened chocolates are produced, which can be sold simply as dark chocolate, or, with the addition of milk, can be made into milk chocolate. Making chocolate with only cocoa butter and milk produces white chocolate. 
Chocolate is one of the most popular food types and flavors in the world, and many foodstuffs include chocolate, particularly desserts, including ice creams, cakes, mousse, and cookies. Many candies are filled with or coated with sweetened chocolate. Chocolate bars, either made of solid chocolate or other ingredients coated in chocolate, are eaten as snacks. Gifts of chocolate molded into different shapes (such as eggs, hearts, and coins) are traditional on certain holidays, including Christmas, Easter, Valentine's Day, Hanukkah and Eid al-Fitr. Chocolate is also used in cold and hot beverages, such as chocolate milk, hot chocolate and chocolate liqueur.
The cacao tree was first used as a source for food in what is today Ecuador at least 5,300 years ago. Mesoamerican civilizations widely consumed cacao beverages, and in the 16th century, one of these beverages, chocolate, was introduced to Europe. Until the 19th century, chocolate was a drink consumed by societal elite. In the wake of technological advances chocolate became a mass-consumed solid food. Cocoa beans for most chocolate are grown in West African countries, particularly Ivory Coast and Ghana, which contribute about 60% of the world's cocoa supply.

Title: Chocolate chip cookie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chocolate_chip_cookie
Excerpt: A chocolate chip cookie is a drop cookie that contains pieces of chocolate mixed into the dough before baking. Texture and appearance vary with ingredients and preparation, ranging from moist, chewy cookies to ones that are crispy. 
Chocolate chip cookies are closely associated with the United States, where they are the most popular cookie. Their invention is generally credited to Massachusetts chef and hotelier Ruth Graves Wakefield in the 1930s, although versions existed that preceded hers. Over the 20th century they gained popularity through their association with the Swiss company Nestlé, their distribution to American troops in World War II, and the development of new versions in the 1970s and 1980s by manufacturers such as Famous Amos and Mrs. Fields.
Chocolate chip cookies are made from eggs, white and brown sugar, flour, a leavener, fat, vanilla, and small pieces of chocolate. The starch in the flour is responsible for the cookie's ability to set, while brown sugar and the practice of adding eggs one at a time contribute to chewiness. Nuts and other inclusions are sometimes added, and spin-offs have been developed including chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream and an ice cream sandwich.

Title: Chocolate milk
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chocolate_milk
Excerpt: Chocolate milk is a type of flavoured milk made by mixing cocoa powder with milk (either dairy or plant-based). It is a food pairing in which the milk's mouthfeel masks the dietary fibres of the (non-fat) cocoa solids of cocoa powder.

Title: Like Water for Chocolate (novel)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Like_Water_for_Chocolate_(novel)
Excerpt: Like Water for Chocolate (Spanish: Como agua para chocolate) is a 1989 novel by Mexican novelist and screenwriter Laura Esquivel. It was first published in Mexico in 1989. The English version of the novel was published in 1992.
The novel follows the story of a young woman named Tita, who longs for her beloved, Pedro, but can never have him because of her mother's upholding of the family tradition: the youngest daughter cannot marry, but instead must take care of her mother until she dies. Tita is only able to express herself when she cooks.
The book has inspired a 1992 film of the same name, a 2022 ballet, and a 2024 TV series; 2 sequels were written by Esquivel. It was named by Spanish periodical El Mundo as one of the best Spanish-language novels of the 20th century.

Title: Controversies of Nestlé
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Controversies_of_Nestl%C3%A9
Excerpt: Nestlé, the biggest food company in the world, has been involved in a significant number of controversies and has been criticized a number of times for its business practices. Since the 1970s, Nestlé has faced criticism for: 

forced labour
modern slavery
child labour
incidents of contaminated and infested food products
deliberately false and misleading claims in marketing of breast milk substitutes, particularly in developing countries
preventing access to non-bottled water in impoverished countries
issues around animal welfare commitments
actively spreading disinformation about recycling
illegal water-pumping from drought-stricken Native American  reservations
price fixing
union-busting activity
deforestation
lobbying to support misinformation about infant and women's nutrition. In 2014, Nestlé alone spent an estimated $160,000 on lobbying related to the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children.