Title: Geddy Lee
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geddy_Lee
Excerpt: Geddy Lee Weinrib (; born Gary Lee Weinrib, July 29, 1953) is a Canadian musician, best known as the lead vocalist, bassist, and keyboardist for the rock band Rush. Lee joined the band in September 1968 at the request of his childhood friend Alex Lifeson, replacing original bassist and frontman Jeff Jones. Along with Lifeson, Lee is one of the only two members to appear on every Rush album, and he remained in the band until their initial dissolution from 2015 to 2025. Lee's solo effort, My Favourite Headache, was released in 2000.
Lee's style, technique, and skill on the bass have inspired many rock musicians such as Cliff Burton of Metallica; Steve Harris of Iron Maiden; John Myung of Dream Theater; Les Claypool of Primus; Steve Di Giorgio of Sadus, Death and Testament; and Tim Commerford of Rage Against the Machine and Audioslave. Along with his Rush bandmates – guitarist Alex Lifeson and drummer Neil Peart – Lee was made an Officer of the Order of Canada on May 9, 1996. The trio was the first rock band to receive this honour. In 2013, the group was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame after 14 years of eligibility. In 2006, Lee was ranked 13th by Hit Parader on their list of the 100 Greatest Heavy Metal Vocalists of All Time.  In 2020, Rolling Stone ranked Lee 24th on their list of the 50 greatest bassists of all time.

Title: Gerry Hannah
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerry_Hannah
Excerpt: Gerald Richard Hannah (also known as Gerry Useless; birthdate unknown) is a Canadian musician who was the bass guitarist for the Canadian punk rock group The Subhumans. Hannah was also a member of the armed revolutionary group known as the Squamish Five.

Title: Richard Reed Parry
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Reed_Parry
Excerpt: Richard Reed Parry (born October 4, 1977) is a Canadian multi-instrumentalist, composer, producer, best known as a core member of the indie rock band Arcade Fire, where he plays a wide variety of instruments, often switching between guitar, double bass, drums, celesta, keyboards, and accordion.

Title: Richard Jones (The Feeling)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Jones_(The_Feeling)
Excerpt: Richard Jones (born 6 April 1979) is a British music producer, songwriter, bass guitar player and founding member of rock band the Feeling.

Title: Lawmen: Bass Reeves
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawmen:_Bass_Reeves
Excerpt: Lawmen: Bass Reeves is an American Western television miniseries created by Chad Feehan, who also serves as showrunner, and executive produced by Taylor Sheridan, Feehan, David C. Glasser, David Oyelowo, Jessica Oyelowo, David Permut, Christina Alexandra Voros, Ron Burkle, Bob Yari, and David Hutkin. It is based on the life of one of the first African American Deputy U.S. Marshals west of the Mississippi River, Bass Reeves as well as on the first two books of Bass Reeves trilogy written by Sidney Thompson. The series premiered on Paramount+ on November 5, 2023, with back-to-back episodes.