Title: Gambino crime family
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gambino_crime_family
Excerpt: The Gambino crime family (Italian: [ɡamˈbiːno]) is an Italian American Mafia crime family and one of the "Five Families" that dominate organized crime activities in New York City, within the nationwide criminal phenomenon known as the American Mafia. The group, which went through five bosses between 1910 and 1957, is named after Carlo Gambino, boss of the family at the time of the McClellan hearings in 1963, when the structure of organized crime first gained public attention. The group's operations extend from New York and the eastern seaboard to California. Its illicit activities include labor and construction racketeering, gambling, loansharking, extortion, money laundering, prostitution, fraud, hijacking, and fencing.
The family was one of the five families that were founded in New York after the Castellammarese War of 1931. For most of the next quarter-century, it was a minor player in organized crime. Its most prominent member during this time was its underboss Albert Anastasia, who rose to infamy as the operating head of the underworld's enforcement arm, Murder, Inc. He remained in power even after Murder, Inc. was smashed in the late 1940s, and took over his family in 1951—by all accounts, after murdering the family's founder Vincent Mangano—which was then recognized as the Anastasia crime family.
The rise of what was the most powerful crime family in America for a time began in 1957, when Anastasia was assassinated while sitting in a barber chair at the Park Sheraton Hotel in Manhattan, New York City. Some historians believe that Albert Anastasia's underboss Carlo Gambino helped orchestrate the hit to take over the family. Gambino partnered with Meyer Lansky to control gambling interests in Cuba and a few other places. The family's fortunes grew through 1976, when Gambino appointed his brother-in-law Paul Castellano as boss upon his death. Castellano infuriated upstart capo John Gotti, who orchestrated Castellano's murder in 1985. Gotti's downfall came in 1992, when his underboss Salvatore "Sammy the Bull" Gravano cooperated with the FBI. Gravano's cooperation with the U.S. government sent John Gotti and most of the top members of the Gambino family to prison. Following the Gotti regime, the control of the Gambino family was assumed by the organization's Sicilian faction. Beginning in 2015, the family was headed by Frank Cali until his assassination outside his Staten Island home on March 13, 2019.

Title: DeCavalcante crime family
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DeCavalcante_crime_family
Excerpt: The DeCavalcante crime family, also known as the North Jersey crime family or the North Jersey Mafia, is an Italian American Mafia crime family that operates mainly in North Jersey, particularly in Elizabeth, Newark, Linden, West New York and the surrounding areas. The family is part of the nationwide criminal network known as the American Mafia.
The DeCavalcante family operates on the opposite side of the Hudson River from the Five Families of New York City, and maintains strong relations with each of the New York families, especially the Gambino family, as well as with the Philadelphia crime family and the Patriarca crime family of New England. The organization is considered by some to be the "Sixth Family". 
The family's illicit activities include bookmaking; corruption; drug trafficking; extortion; fencing; fraud; hijacking; illegal gambling; money laundering; murder; prostitution; and cement, construction, and waste management racketeering.

Title: Jewish-American organized crime
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jewish-American_organized_crime
Excerpt: Jewish-American organized crime initially emerged within the American Jewish community during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. In media and popular culture, it has variously been referred to as the Jewish Mob, the Jewish Mafia, the Kosher Mob, the Kosher Mafia, the Yiddish Connection, and Kosher Nostra or Undzer Shtik (Yiddish: אונדזער שטיק). The last two of these terms are direct references to the Italian Cosa Nostra; the former is a play on the word for kosher, referring to Jewish dietary laws, while the latter is a calque of the Italian phrase 'cosa nostra' (Italian for "our thing") into Yiddish, which was at the time the predominant language of the Jewish diaspora in the United States.
In the late 19th century and early 20th century in New York City, Monk Eastman operated a powerful Jewish gang known as the Eastman Gang that competed with Italian and Irish gangs, notably Paul Kelly's Five Points Gang, for control of New York City's underworld. Another notorious gang, known as the Lenox Avenue Gang, led by Harry "Gyp the Blood" Horowitz, consisted of mostly Jewish members and some Italian members (such as Francesco Cirofisi). It was one of the most violent gangs of the early 20th century and became famous for the murder of gambler and gangster Herman Rosenthal.
In the early 1920s, stimulated by the economic opportunities of the Roaring Twenties, and later stimulated by Prohibition, Jewish organized crime figures such as Arnold Rothstein were controlling a wide range of criminal enterprises, including bootlegging, loansharking, gambling, and bookmaking. According to crime writer Leo Katcher, Rothstein "transformed organized crime from a thuggish activity by hoodlums into a big business, run like a corporation, with himself at the top." Rothstein was allegedly responsible for fixing the 1919 World Series. At the same time, the Jewish bootlegging mob known as The Purple Gang dominated the Detroit underworld during Prohibition, while the Jewish Bugs and Meyer Mob operated on the Lower East Side of Manhattan before being absorbed into Murder, Inc. and becoming affiliates of the Italian-American Mafia.
The largely Jewish-American and Italian-American gang which was known as Murder, Inc. and Jewish mobsters such as Meyer Lansky, Mickey Cohen, Harold "Hooky" Rothman, Dutch Schultz, and Bugsy Siegel developed close ties with the Italian-American Mafia and gained a significant amount of influence within it; eventually, they formed a loosely organized, mostly Jewish and Italian criminal syndicate which the press named the "National Crime Syndicate." Jewish and Italian crime groups increasingly became interconnected in the 1920s and 1930s, and their connections continued into the 1960s and beyond, partially because both groups often occupied the same neighborhoods and social statuses of the time. The two ethnic crime groups became especially close in New York City following the establishment of the close relationship between partners Lucky Luciano and Meyer Lansky and their subsequent elimination of many of the so-called "Mustache Pete" types ⁠— Sicilian-born gangsters who often refused to work with non-Italians and even non-Sicilians. The lines between Jewish and Italian criminal organizations often blurred throughout the 20th century. For decades after, Jewish-American mobsters would continue to work closely and at times compete with Italian-American organized crime.

Title: American Mafia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Mafia
Excerpt: The American Mafia, commonly referred to in North America as the Italian-American Mafia, the Mafia, or the Mob, is a highly organized Italian American criminal society and organized crime group. The terms Italian Mafia and Italian Mob apply to these American-based organizations, as well as the separate yet related Sicilian Mafia or other organized crime groups in Italy, or ethnic Italian crime groups in other countries. These organizations are often referred to by their members as Cosa Nostra (Italian: [ˈkɔːza ˈnɔstra, ˈkɔːsa -]; lit. 'Our Thing') and by the American government as La Cosa Nostra (LCN). The organization's name is derived from the original Mafia or Cosa Nostra, the Sicilian Mafia, with "American Mafia" originally referring simply to Mafia groups from Sicily operating in the United States.
The Mafia in the United States emerged in impoverished Italian immigrant neighborhoods in New York's East Harlem (or "Italian Harlem"), the Lower East Side, and Brooklyn; also emerging in other areas of the Northeastern United States and several other major metropolitan areas (such as  Chicago and New Orleans) during the late 19th century and early 20th century, following waves of Italian immigration especially from Sicily and other regions of Southern Italy. Campanian, Calabrian and other Italian criminal groups in the United States, as well as independent Italian-American criminals, eventually merged with Sicilian Mafiosi to create the modern pan-Italian Mafia in North America. Today, the Italian-American Mafia cooperates in various criminal activities with Italian organized crime groups, such as the Sicilian Mafia, the Camorra of Campania and the 'Ndrangheta of Calabria. The most important unit of the American Mafia is that of a "family", as the various criminal organizations that make up the Mafia are known. Despite the name of "family" to describe the various units, they are not familial groupings.
The Mafia is most active in the Northeastern United States, with the heaviest activity in New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, New Jersey, Pittsburgh, Buffalo, and New England, in areas such as Boston, Providence, and Hartford. It also remains heavily active in Chicago and has a significant and powerful presence in other Midwestern metropolitan areas such as Kansas City, Detroit, Milwaukee, Cleveland, and St. Louis. Outside of these areas, the Mafia is also very active in Florida, Phoenix, Las Vegas, and Los Angeles. Mafia families have previously existed to a greater extent and continue to exist to a lesser extent in Northeastern Pennsylvania, Dallas, Denver, New Orleans, Rochester, San Francisco, San Jose, Seattle, and Tampa. While some of the regional crime families in these areas may no longer exist to the same extent as before, descendants have continued to engage in criminal operations, while consolidation has occurred in other areas, with rackets being controlled by more powerful crime families from nearby cities.
At the Mafia's peak, there were at least 26 cities around the United States with Cosa Nostra families, with many more offshoots and associates in other cities. There are five main New York City Mafia families, known as the Five Families: the Gambino, Lucchese, Genovese, Bonanno, and Colombo families. The Italian-American Mafia has long dominated organized crime in the United States. Each crime family has its own territory and operates independently, while nationwide coordination is overseen by the Commission, which consists of the bosses of each of the strongest families. Though the majority of the Mafia's activities are contained to the Northeastern United States and Chicago, they continue to dominate organized crime in the United States, despite the increasing numbers of other crime groups.
Fictional accounts of the Mafia have long been a part of popular culture, especially since Mario Puzo's The Godfather was released in 1969. Francis Ford Coppola's film adaptation of the novel further contributed to romanticised accounts of the Mafia as well as The Sopranos.

Title: Bonanno crime family
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bonanno_crime_family
Excerpt: The Bonanno crime family (Italian: [boˈnanno]) is an Italian American Mafia crime family and one of the "Five Families" that dominate organized crime activities in New York City within the criminal organization known as the American Mafia. The family's operations have also extended into New Jersey, Florida, California, Arizona, and Montreal. The Bonanno family has historically been one of the smallest of the Five Families, and was seen as the most brutal of the New York families during the 20th century.
The family was known as the Maranzano crime family until its founder Salvatore Maranzano was murdered in 1931. Joseph Bonanno was awarded most of Maranzano's operations when Charles "Lucky" Luciano oversaw the creation of the Commission to divide up criminal enterprises in New York City among the Five Families following the Castellammarese War. Under the leadership of Bonanno between the 1930s and 1960s, the family was one of the most powerful in the United States. By the 1960s, the Bonanno family held significant interests in the Fulton Fish Market, the Garment District, and Kennedy International Airport. Additionally, the family maintained close ties to the Sicilian Mafia, with whom it orchestrated the importation of billions of dollars' worth of heroin into the United States during the mid-to-late 20th century.
However, in the early 1960s, Bonanno attempted to overthrow several leaders of the Commission, but failed. Bonanno disappeared from 1964 to 1966, triggering an intra-family war colloquially referred to as the "Banana War" that lasted until 1968, when Bonanno was forced into exile by the Commission and subsequently retired to Arizona. Carmine Galante, a former top lieutenant of Bonanno, took control of the family in the mid-1970s. After challenging the Gambino family for control of New York's drug trade, Galante was killed in 1979 in a Commission-approved assassination. During the 1980s, Philip Rastelli headed the organization and put down an insurrection by a competing faction within the family by ordering the massacre of three rival capos—Philip Giaccone, Al Indelicato and Dominick Trinchera—in 1981.
Between 1976 and 1981, the family was infiltrated by Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agent Joseph Pistone, who went undercover using the alias "Donnie Brasco". This resulted in the Bonannos becoming the first of the New York families to be expelled from the Commission. Consequently, the Bonnano family was the smallest and weakest of the Five Families during the 1980s. It took until the 1990s for the family to recover, a process overseen by Joseph Massino, who became the new boss upon the death of Rastelli in 1991. Despite these issues, by the dawn of the new millennium, the Bonanno family had not only regained their seat on the Commission but had also become the second-most-powerful family in New York after the Genovese family. However, a rash of convictions during the early 2000s culminated in Massino himself becoming a government witness in 2004, the first boss of one of the Five Families in New York City to turn state's evidence.