Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles
Excerpt: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (TMNT) is an American media franchise created by comic book artists Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. It follows Leonardo, Donatello, Raphael and Michelangelo, four anthropomorphic turtle brothers trained in ninjutsu who fight evil in New York City. The franchise encompasses printed media, television series, feature films, video games, and merchandise.
The franchise began as a comic book, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, which Eastman and Laird conceived as a parody of elements popular in superhero comics at the time. The first issue was published in 1984 by Eastman and Laird's company Mirage Studios and was a surprise success. In 1987, Eastman and Laird licensed the characters to Playmates Toys, which developed a line of Turtles action figures. About $1.1 billion worth of Turtles toys were sold between 1988 and 1992, making them the third-bestselling toy figures ever at the time.
The action figures were promoted with an animated series, which premiered in 1987 and ran for almost a decade. It was succeeded by several other television series. The first Turtles video game was released in 1989, the first of several developed by the Japanese company Konami. The first Turtles film, released in 1990, became the highest-grossing independent film up to that point.
Eastman sold his share of the Turtles franchise to Laird in 2000. In 2009, Laird sold it to Viacom, now Paramount Skydance Corporation. The franchise has continued with a new comic book series, television series, films and video games.

Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2012 TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_(2012_TV_series)
Excerpt: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is an American animated television series developed by Ciro Nieli, Joshua Sternin, and Jennifer Ventimilia for Nickelodeon, based on the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles characters created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. The series begins with the Turtles emerging from their sewer home for the first time, using their ninjutsu training to fight enemies in present-day New York City. The series ran in the United States from September 28, 2012, to November 12, 2017.
The series was first announced in October 2009, following the news that Nickelodeon's parent company Viacom had acquired the rights to the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles franchise. The show was created to reach a core audience of boys aged 6 to 11; it was one half of Nickelodeon's strategy to reboot two established brands for new viewers, coinciding with Nickelodeon Animation Studio's development of new Winx Club episodes for girls. It was produced by Nickelodeon Animation Studio and LowBar Productions. Bardel Entertainment and Technicolor Animation India handled layout and CG animation services.
During the months leading to its premiere, Nickelodeon and Playmates Toys released lines of merchandise featuring the new character designs. The two-part premiere took place on September 28 and September 29, 2012, reaching 3.9 million viewers. The debut ratings were the highest for a Nickelodeon animated series since 2009, leading to a second season pickup in October 2012. Three more seasons followed; the fifth and final season was rebranded as Tales of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and did not fully air on Nickelodeon, as episodes 115–121 premiered on its sister channel Nicktoons.

Title: List of video games that support cross-platform play
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_video_games_that_support_cross-platform_play
Excerpt: Cross-platform play is the ability to allow different gaming platforms to share the same online servers in a game, allowing players to join regardless of the platform they own. Since the Dreamcast and PlayStation 2, there have been some online video games that support cross-play. Listed here is an incomplete list of games that support cross-play with their consoles, computers, mobile, and handheld game consoles note when using. 
While PC versions for games on Microsoft Windows, Linux, or MacOS that have cross-platform support. In contrast, those that are only limited to Windows can work with Wine, or Proton on Linux or MacOS to have multiplayer working on their respective platform. Steam has support for them in use like the Steam Deck but it could be considered not cross-platform as those are only compatibility layers from Windows except certain games with Anti-Cheat that do not work.

Title: Outright Games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Outright_Games
Excerpt: Outright Games Ltd. is a British video game publisher focused on licensed games, mainly based on family-friendly properties similar to GameMill Entertainment. The company was co-founded in 2016 by Terry Malham as well as his children, Terry Malham-Wallis and Stephanie Malham. It operates offices in London and Madrid.
In May 2021, the company launched a mobile gaming division.

Title: Platform fighter
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_fighter
Excerpt: A platform fighter is a sub-genre of fighting games that emphasizes free 2D movement, often with floating platforms that can be traversed on, similar to a platform game. The central gameplay involves combat between two or more player-controlled characters, with the goal of attacking an opponent's character until they are defeated. Platform fighters are sometimes colloquially referred to as "Smash clones", in reference to the most popular platform fighter series, Super Smash Bros.
Unlike other fighting games, platform fighters typically do not have a health bar; instead, the damage that a player's character has taken increases the distance they are launched when hit by an attack. Opponents are defeated when they leave the boundaries of the arena.