Title: The Equitable Life Assurance Society
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Equitable_Life_Assurance_Society
Excerpt: The Equitable Life Assurance Society (Equitable Life), founded in 1762, is a life insurance company in the United Kingdom. The world's oldest mutual insurer, it pioneered age-based premiums based on mortality rate, laying "the framework for scientific insurance practice and development" and "the basis of modern life assurance upon which all life assurance schemes were subsequently based". After closing to new business in 2000, parts of the business were sold off and the remainder of the company became a subsidiary of Utmost Life and Pensions in January 2020.
At its peak in the 1990s, Equitable had 1.5 million policyholders with funds worth £26 billion under management, but it had allowed large unhedged liabilities to accumulate in respect of guaranteed fixed returns to investors without making provision for adverse market changes. Many policyholders lost half their life savings, and the company came close to collapse.
Following a July 2000 House of Lords ruling and the failure of attempts to find a buyer for the business, it closed to new business in December 2000 and reduced payouts to existing members. Lord Penrose's 2004 Equitable Life Inquiry found that the company had made over-generous payouts leading it to be under-funded. A 2007 European report concluded that regulators had focused on solvency margins and failed to consider the increasing risk of accrued terminal bonuses. In 2010, government announced compensation to policy-holders of £1.5bn.
In June 2018, Equitable Life announced that Life Company Consolidation Group (now Utmost Life and Pensions) had agreed to buy the company for £1.8bn, with most policies to be transferred to Utmost's Reliance Life subsidiary and converted to unit-linked. Some of the proceeds of the sale would be returned to the remaining 400,000 policyholders in the form of increased bonuses on their policies. The sale completed at the end of 2019.

Title: Financial risk management
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Financial_risk_management
Excerpt: Financial risk management is the practice of protecting economic value in a firm by managing exposure to financial risk - principally credit risk and market risk, with more specific variants as listed aside - as well as some aspects of operational risk. As for risk management more generally, financial risk management requires identifying the sources of risk, measuring these, and crafting plans to mitigate them. See Finance § Risk management for an overview.
Financial risk management as a "science" can be said to have been born with modern portfolio theory, particularly as initiated by Professor Harry Markowitz in 1952 with his article, "Portfolio Selection"; see Mathematical finance § Risk and portfolio management: the P world.
The discipline can be qualitative and quantitative; as a specialization of risk management, however, financial risk management focuses more on when and how to hedge, often using financial instruments to manage costly exposures to risk.

In the banking sector worldwide, the Basel Accords are generally adopted by internationally active banks for tracking, reporting and exposing operational, credit and market risks.
Within non-financial corporates, the scope is broadened to overlap enterprise risk management, and financial risk management then addresses risks to the firm's overall strategic objectives.
Insurers manage their own risks with a focus on solvency and the ability to pay claims. Life Insurers are concerned more with longevity and interest rate risk, while short-Term Insurers emphasize catastrophe-risk and claims volatility.
In investment management risk is managed through diversification and related optimization; while further specific techniques are then applied to the portfolio or to individual stocks as appropriate.
In all cases, the last "line of defence" against risk is capital, "as it ensures that a firm can continue as a going concern even if substantial and unexpected losses are incurred".

Title: Health care system in Japan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_care_system_in_Japan
Excerpt: The health care system in Japan provides different types of services, including screening examinations, prenatal care and infectious disease control, with the patient accepting responsibility for 30% of these costs while the government pays the remaining 70%. Payment for personal medical services is offered by a universal health care insurance system that provides relative equality of access, with fees set by a government committee. All residents of Japan are required by the law to have health insurance coverage. People without employer insurance; insurance provided by the employer, where premiums are split between the employer and employee, can participate in a national health insurance program, administered by local governments. Patients are free to select physicians or facilities of their choice and cannot be denied coverage.
Medical fees are strictly regulated by the government to keep them affordable. Depending on the family's income and the age of the insured, patients are responsible for paying 10%, 20%, or 30% of medical fees, with the government paying the remaining fee. Also, monthly thresholds are set for each household, again depending on income and age, and medical fees exceeding the threshold are waived or reimbursed by the government.
Uninsured patients are responsible for paying 100% of their medical fees, but fees are waived for low-income households receiving a government subsidy.

Title: Catastrophe bond
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catastrophe_bond
Excerpt: Catastrophe bonds (also known as cat bonds) are a subset of insurance-linked securities (ILS) that transfer a specified set of risks from a sponsor to investors. If a specified catastrophe occurs, the bond pays the invested principal to the sponsors as a way of funding the recovery from the disaster; otherwise, the principal is returned at maturity to the investors, who are also paid a coupon over the lifetime of the bond.
They were created and first used in the mid-1990s in the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew and the Northridge earthquake. Catastrophe bonds emerged from a need by insurance and reinsurance companies to alleviate some of the risks they would face if a major catastrophe occurred, which would incur damage that they could not cover with the invested premiums. Though present since the 1990s, the increases in disaster risk related to climate change caused many governments and insurance companies to turn to cat bonds when reinsurance is not available or too expensive.
In order to create a bond, an insurance company issues bonds through an investment bank, which are then sold to investors, such as hedge funds or other kinds of investment vehicles. Catastrophe bonds are non-investment grade corporate bonds (roughly equivalent to B or BB) with floating interest rates, and have an average maturity of 3 years with some up to 5 years but are uncommon. The insurance company pays a coupon to the investors and if no catastrophe occurs the principal is paid back at maturity. If a catastrophe occurs, then the principal is lost (the bond defaults) and the insurance company uses this money to pay their claim-holders. The triggers are linked to major natural catastrophes. Catastrophe bonds are typically used by insurers as an alternative to traditional catastrophe reinsurance.
For example, if an insurer has built up a portfolio of risks by insuring properties in Florida, then it might wish to pass some of this risk on so that it can remain solvent after a large hurricane. It could simply purchase traditional catastrophe reinsurance, which would pass the risk on to reinsurers. Or it could sponsor a cat bond, which would pass the risk on to investors. In consultation with an investment bank, it would create a special purpose entity that would issue the cat bond. Investors include hedge funds, ILS-dedicated funds, pension plans, (re)insurance companies, and asset managers. They are often structured as floating-rate bonds whose principal is lost if specified trigger conditions are met.

Title: Group 1001
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Group_1001
Excerpt: Group 1001 is an American insurance collective and financial services holding company with headquarters in Zionsville, Indiana. It is a subsidiary of TWG Global.