Title: Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_Potter_and_the_Philosopher%27s_Stone
Excerpt: Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone is a fantasy novel by British author J. K. Rowling. It is the first novel in the Harry Potter series and was Rowling's debut novel. It follows Harry Potter, a young wizard who discovers his magical heritage on his eleventh birthday when he receives a letter of acceptance from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. With the help of his friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, Harry unravels a mystery involving the dark wizard Lord Voldemort.
The book was first published in the United Kingdom on 26 June 1997 by Bloomsbury. It was published in the United States the following year by Scholastic Corporation under the title Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. It won most of the British book awards that were judged by children and other awards in the US. The book reached the top of the New York Times list of best-selling fiction in August 1999, and stayed near the top of that list for much of 1999 and 2000. It has been translated into 85 other languages and made into a feature-length film of the same name, as have all six of its sequels. The novel has sold in excess of 120 million copies, making it the fourth best-selling book of all time.
Most reviews were very favourable, commenting on Rowling's imagination, humour, simple, direct style and clever plot construction, although a few complained that the final chapters seemed rushed. The writing has been compared to that of Jane Austen, one of Rowling's favourite authors; Roald Dahl, whose works dominated children's stories before the appearance of Harry Potter; and the ancient Greek story-teller Homer. While some commentators thought the book looked backward to Victorian and Edwardian boarding school stories, others thought it placed the genre firmly in the modern world by featuring contemporary ethical and social issues, as well as showing overcoming obstacles like bullying.
The Harry Potter series has been used as a source of object lessons in educational techniques, sociological analysis, and marketing.

Title: Now That's What I Call Music!
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Now_That%27s_What_I_Call_Music!
Excerpt: Now That's What I Call Music! (often shortened to NOW) is a series of various artists compilation albums released in the United Kingdom and Ireland by Sony Music and Universal Music (Universal/Sony Music) which began in 1983. Spinoff series began for other countries the following year, starting with South Africa, and many other countries worldwide soon followed, expanding into Asia in 1995, then the United States in 1998.
The compilation series was conceived in the office of Virgin Records in London and took its name from a 1930s British advertising poster for Danish bacon featuring a pig saying "Now, That's What I Call Music" as it listened to a chicken singing. The pig became the mascot for the series, making its last regular appearance on Now That's What I Call Music 5, before reappearing on the 100th edition in 2018, and again since 2021.

Title: List of best-selling albums
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_albums
Excerpt: This is a list of the world's best-selling albums of recorded music in physical mediums, such as vinyl, audio cassettes or compact discs. To appear on the list, the figure must have been published by a reliable source and the album must have sold at least 20 million copies and certified at least 10 million units (the equivalent of a diamond certification by the RIAA). This list can contain any types of album, including studio albums, extended plays, greatest hits, compilations, various artists, soundtracks and remixes. The figures given do not take into account the resale of used albums. Certified copies are sourced either from available online databases of local music industry associations or a country with an established certifying authority (see List of music recording certifications).
As a result of the methodology that the American and Canadian certification-awarding bodies (the RIAA and Music Canada respectively) use, each disc in a multi-disc set is counted as one unit toward certification, leading to some double albums on the list—such as Pink Floyd's The Wall—being certified with a number double the number of copies sold there. Such albums have the certifications for the number of copies (not discs) shipped indicated. Conversely, the American certification level for double albums that fit onto one compact disc, such as the Saturday Night Fever soundtrack reflect the actual number of copies sold. In 2016, RIAA included streaming in addition to track sales and album sales based on the concept of album-equivalent unit for certification purposes, and certification therefore no longer reflects shipment alone. For example, in the update of the certification for Their Greatest Hits (1971–1975) by the Eagles in August 2018, the album was certified 38× Platinum (increasing from the previous 29× Platinum certification in 2006) based on the new criteria, making it then the album with the highest certification in the United States.
Michael Jackson's Thriller, estimated to have sold 70 million copies worldwide, is the best-selling album ever. Jackson also has the highest number of albums on the list with five, Celine Dion has four, while the Beatles, Madonna, Whitney Houston and Pink Floyd each have three.
Groupings are based on different sales benchmarks, the highest being for claims of at least 40 million copies, and the lowest being for claims of 20–29 million copies. Albums are listed in order of number of copies sold. If two or more artists have the same claimed sales, they are then ranked by certified units and thereafter by the artist's last name. Markets' order within the table is based on the number of compact discs sold in each market, largest market at the top and smallest at the bottom.

Title: And Then There Were None
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/And_Then_There_Were_None
Excerpt: And Then There Were None is a 1939 mystery novel by the English writer Agatha Christie. It is the world's best-selling mystery novel and one of the best-selling books of all time, with more than 100 million copies sold by 2007. It has been adapted for film, television, radio, theatre, and other media more often than any other of Christie's works. In 2015, it was named the "World's Favourite Christie" in a global vote organised by the author's estate. 
The story takes place on an isolated island off the coast of Devon. Ten individuals are accused of past crimes and are killed one by one according to the lines of a popular rhyme. Christie described the book as the most difficult of her novels to write because of the complexity of the plot and its solution, and regarded it as a better piece of craftsmanship than anything else she had written.
The novel received largely positive reviews on first publication, with critics praising the ingenuity of its plot, and it has since been frequently named among the greatest crime novels ever written. In 1990 the Crime Writers' Association ranked it nineteenth on its list of the best crime novels, and in 1995 the Mystery Writers of America placed it tenth on a comparable list.
The book was first published in the United Kingdom by Collins Crime Club in 1939 as Ten Little Niggers, after an 1869 minstrel song that forms the central element of the plot. It appeared in the UK under that title until 1985. The first American edition, published in 1940, was called And Then There Were None from the start, as the original was considered unacceptably racially loaded in the United States; the book was also issued there as Ten Little Indians between 1964 and 1986. Later editions in both countries revised the text and the rhyme to remove the original racial language, and the novel is now published in English only as And Then There Were None.

Title: List of best-selling albums by country
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_albums_by_country
Excerpt: The following is an independently-determined list of best-selling albums by country. Depends on the measurement, record sales of albums are taken by estimations or certifications.
Note that some of the data are incomplete due to a lack of available published data from a number of territories, unlike the United Kingdom and the United States with recognized national measurement firms and certifying bodies such as Official Charts Company/British Phonographic Industry (BPI) and Nielsen SoundScan/Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) respectively.  Therefore, no rankings are given in certain cases.