Title: Slavery in the United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slavery_in_the_United_States
Excerpt: The legal institution of human chattel slavery, comprising the enslavement primarily of Africans and African Americans, was prevalent in the United States from its founding in 1776 until 1865, predominantly in the South. Slavery was found throughout European colonization in the Americas. From 1526, during the early colonial period, it was practiced in what became Britain's colonies, including the Thirteen Colonies that formed the United States. Under the law, children were born into slavery, and an enslaved person was treated as property that could be bought, sold, or given away. Slavery persisted in about half of the U.S. states until its abolition in 1865. Issues involving slavery seeped into every aspect of national politics, economics, and social customs. In the decades after Reconstruction ended in 1877, many of slavery's economic and social functions continued through segregation, sharecropping, and convict leasing. Involuntary servitude as a punishment for crime remains legal.
By the time of the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783), enslaved people had been institutionalized as a racial caste associated with African ancestry. During and immediately after the Revolution, abolitionist laws passed in most Northern states and a movement developed to abolish slavery. The role of slavery under the United States Constitution (1789) was highly contentious during its drafting. The Three-Fifths Clause of the Constitution inflated slave states' political power, while the Fugitive Slave Clause provided that, if a slave escaped to another state, the other state could not prevent the slave's return to the person claiming to be their owner. All Northern states had abolished slavery to some degree by 1805, sometimes with completion at a future date, and sometimes with an intermediary status of unpaid indentured servitude.
Abolition was, in many cases, gradual. Some slave owners, primarily in the Upper South, freed their slaves. Charitable groups bought and freed others. Individual states began to outlaw the Atlantic slave trade during the American Revolution, and Congress banned it in 1808. Nevertheless, smuggling was common thereafter, and the U.S. Revenue Cutter Service (Coast Guard) began to enforce the ban on the high seas. Before 1820, most serving congressmen owned slaves, and about 30% of congressmen born before 1840 (the last of whom, Rebecca Latimer Felton, served in the 1920s) owned slaves at some time in their lives.
The cotton industry's rapid expansion in the Deep South after the invention of the cotton gin greatly increased demand for slave labor, and the Southern states remained slave societies. The U.S., divided into slave and free states, became ever more polarized over slavery. Driven by labor demands from new cotton plantations in the Deep South, the Upper South sold more than a million slaves who were taken to the Deep South. The total slave population in the South eventually reached four million. As the U.S. expanded, the Southern states attempted to extend slavery into the new Western territories to allow pro-slavery forces to maintain power in Congress. The new territories acquired in the Louisiana Purchase and the Mexican Cession were the subject of major political crises and compromises. Slavery was defended in the South as a "positive good", and the largest religious denominations split over slavery into regional organizations of the North and South.
By 1850, the newly rich, cotton-growing South threatened to secede from the Union. Bloody fighting broke out over slavery in the Kansas Territory. When Abraham Lincoln won the 1860 election on a platform of halting the expansion of slavery, slave states seceded to form the Confederacy. Shortly afterward, the Civil War began when Confederate forces attacked the U.S. Army's Fort Sumter in Charleston, South Carolina. During the war some jurisdictions abolished slavery and, due to Union measures such as the Confiscation Acts and the Emancipation Proclamation, the war effectively ended slavery in most places. After the war, the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution was ratified on December 6, 1865, prohibiting "slavery [and] involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime."

Title: Historically black colleges and universities
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Historically_black_colleges_and_universities
Excerpt: Historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) are institutions of higher education in the United States that were established before the Civil Rights Act of 1964 with the intention of serving African American students. Most are in the Southern United States and were founded during the Reconstruction era (1865–1877) following the American Civil War. Their original purpose was to provide education for African Americans in an era when most colleges and universities in the United States did not allow Black students to enroll.
During the Reconstruction era, most historically Black colleges were founded by Protestant religious organizations. This changed in 1890 with the U.S. Congress' passage of the Second Morrill Act, which required segregated Southern states to provide African Americans with public higher education schools in order to receive the Act's benefits. Separately, during the late 20th century, either after expanding their inclusion of Black people and African Americans into their institutions or gaining the status of minority-serving institution, some institutions came to be called predominantly Black institutions (PBIs).
For a century after the abolition of American slavery in 1865, almost all colleges and universities in the Southern United States prohibited all African Americans from attending as required by Jim Crow laws in the South, while institutions in other parts of the country regularly employed quotas to limit admission of Black people. HBCUs were established to provide more opportunities to African Americans and are largely responsible for establishing and expanding the African-American middle class.  In the 1950s and 1960s, legally enforced racial segregation in education was generally outlawed throughout the South (and anywhere else in the United States), and other non-discrimination policies were adopted.
There are 107 HBCUs as of 2026 in the United States (of 121 institutions that existed during the 1930s), representing three percent (3%) of the nation's colleges, including public and private institutions. 27 offer doctoral programs, 52 offer master's programs, 83 offer bachelor's degree programs, and 38 offer associate degrees. HBCUs currently produce nearly 20% of all African American college graduates and 25% of African American STEM graduates.  Among the graduates of HBCUs are civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., United States Supreme Court justice Thurgood Marshall, American film director Spike Lee, former United States vice president Kamala Harris and the late American mathematician Katherine Johnson.

Title: United States Semiquincentennial
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Semiquincentennial
Excerpt: The United States Semiquincentennial was the 250th anniversary of the United States Declaration of Independence. Festivities marked various events leading up to the 250th Independence Day, July 4, 2026. 
Official festivities include commemorative coinage, UFC Freedom 250 at the White House, the Great American State Fair on the National Mall, Sail250, a Times Square Ball drop event, the Patriot Games, the Freedom 250 Grand Prix, and the world's largest-ever fireworks display (also held on the National Mall). Part of the 2026 FIFA World Cup was held across the United States, with matches in Philadelphia and Houston on the date of the semiquincentennial.
Official planning for the celebrations began in 2016 with the congressional, non-partisan United States Semiquincentennial Commission (America250). In 2025, federal resources were diverted to the president Donald Trump–aligned White House Task Force on Celebrating America's 250th Birthday (Freedom 250) to promote and plan new events. Celebrations began with the United States Army 250th Anniversary Parade on June 14, 2025, with "America250" events formally starting on July 3, 2025. Several official events were criticized for being politicized and lacking financial transparency. Many celebrations were low-attendance, with some being disrupted by a record-breaking heat wave.

Title: Slave quarters in the United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slave_quarters_in_the_United_States
Excerpt: Slave quarters in the United States, sometimes called slave cabins, were a form of residential vernacular architecture constructed during the era of slavery in the United States. These outbuildings were the homes of the enslaved people attached to an American plantation, farm, or city property.  Some former slave quarters were continuously occupied and used as personal residences until as late as the 1960s.

Title: Historical reputation of Thomas Jefferson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Historical_reputation_of_Thomas_Jefferson
Excerpt: The following article covers the historiography and general reputation of Thomas Jefferson, Founding Father and 3rd president of the United States.