Title: History of the Southern United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_Southern_United_States
Excerpt: Human occupation of the Southern United States began thousands of years ago with Paleo-Indian peoples, the first inhabitants of what would become this distinctive American region. By the time Europeans arrived in the 15th century, the region was inhabited by the Mississippian people. European history in the region would begin with the earliest days of the exploration. Spain, France, and especially England explored and claimed parts of the region.
Starting in the 17th century, the history of the Southern United States developed unique characteristics that came from its economy based primarily on plantation agriculture and the ubiquitous and prevalent institution of slavery. Millions of enslaved Africans were imported to the United States primarily but not exclusively for forced labor in the south. While the great majority of Whites did not own slaves, slavery was nevertheless the foundation of the region's economy and social order. Questions of Southern slavery directly impacted the struggle for American independence throughout the South and gave the region additional power in Congress. 
As industrial technologies including the cotton gin made slavery even more profitable, Southern states refused to ban slavery, perpetuating the division of the United States between free and slave states. Abraham Lincoln's election in 1860 caused South Carolina to secede which was soon followed by all other states in the region with the exception of the 'border states'. The breakaway states formed the Confederate States of America. Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation brought freedom to Black slaves living in rebellious areas as soon as the US Army arrived. With a smaller economy, smaller population and (in some cases) widespread dissent among its white population the Confederate States of America was unable to carry on a protracted struggle with the national government. The Thirteenth and Fourteenth amendments gave freedom, citizenship and civil rights to Black Americans all across the United States. The Fifteenth Amendment and Radical reconstruction laws gave Black men the vote, and for a few years they shared power in the South, despite violent attacks by the Ku Klux Klan. Reconstruction attempted to uplift the former enslaved but this crusade was abandoned in the Compromise of 1877 and Conservative white Southerners calling themselves Redeemers took control. Even though the Ku Klux Klan was suppressed new White Supremacist organizations continued to terrorize Black Americans.
After the dissolving of a Populist movement in the 1890s that attempted to unite working-class blacks and whites Segregation laws were implemented all across the region by 1900. Compared to the North, the Southern United States lost its previous political and economic power and fell behind the rest of the United States for decades. Its agricultural economy was often based on Sharecropping practices. The New Deal and World War II brought about a generation of Liberal Southerners within the Democratic Party that looked to accelerate development. 
Black Americans and their allies resisted Jim Crow and Segregation, initially with the Great Migration and later the civil rights movement. From a political and legal standpoint, many of these aims were realized by the Supreme Court's ruling on Brown v. Board of Education and the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Civil Rights coupled with the collapse of Black Belt agriculture has led some historians to postulate that a 'New South' based on Free Trade, Globalization, and cultural diversity has emerged. Meanwhile, the South has influenced the rest of the United States in a process called Southernization. The legacy of Slavery and Jim Crow continue to impact the region, which by the 21st century is the most populous area of the United States.