Title: List of historical films set in Near Eastern and Western civilization
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_historical_films_set_in_Near_Eastern_and_Western_civilization
Excerpt: Historical drama, or period drama is a film genre in which stories are based upon historical events and notable people. Some historical dramas are docudramas, which attempt to accurately portray a historical event or biography to the degree the available historical research will allow. Other historical dramas are fictionalized tales that are based on an actual person and their deeds, such as Braveheart, which is loosely based on the 13th-century knight William Wallace's fight for Scottish independence.
Historical fantasy includes films that place legendary or historical figures into stylized or supernatural worlds while remaining rooted in a specific era of human history. Examples include 300, which blends ancient Greek history with mythology, or Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, which reimagines the legendary heroic figure in a stylized medieval setting. The genre also frequently incorporates Biblical epics such as Noah or Exodus: Gods and Kings. This sub-genre is distinct from pure fantasy (such as The Lord of the Rings or Conan the Barbarian).
Due to the sheer volume of films included in this genre and the interest in continuity, this list is primarily focused on films about the history of Near Eastern and Western civilization.
Please also refer to the List of historical films set in Asia for films about the history of East Asia, Central Asia, and South Asia.

Title: One Million Years B.C.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_Million_Years_B.C.
Excerpt: One Million Years B.C. is a 1966 British adventure fantasy film directed by Don Chaffey. The film was produced by Hammer Film Productions and Seven Arts, and is a remake of the 1940 American fantasy film One Million B.C. produced by Hal Roach Studios. The film stars Raquel Welch and John Richardson, set in a fictional age of cavemen and dinosaurs existing together. Location scenes were filmed on the Canary Islands in the middle of winter, in late 1965. The UK release prints of this film were printed in dye transfer Technicolor. The U.S. version released by 20th Century Fox was cut by nine minutes, printed in DeLuxe Color, and released in 1967.
Like the original film, this remake is largely ahistorical. It portrays dinosaurs and humans living at the same point in time; according to the geological time scale, the last non-avian dinosaurs became extinct 66 million years ago, and modern humans (Homo sapiens) did not exist until about 300,000 years B.C. Ray Harryhausen, who animated all of the dinosaur attacks using stop-motion animation techniques, commented on the U.S. King Kong DVD that he did not make One Million Years B.C. for "professors...who probably don't go to see these kinds of movies anyway."

Title: Godzilla (2014 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godzilla_(2014_film)
Excerpt: Godzilla is a 2014 monster film directed by Gareth Edwards. Produced by Legendary Pictures and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures, it is a reboot of Toho's Godzilla franchise and its 30th film, and serves as the first entry in Legendary's Monsterverse franchise. The film stars Aaron Taylor-Johnson, Ken Watanabe, Elizabeth Olsen, Juliette Binoche, Sally Hawkins, David Strathairn, and Bryan Cranston. In the film, an American soldier attempts to return to his family while caught in the crossfire of an ancient rivalry between Godzilla and two parasitic monsters known as MUTOs.
An early iteration of the project began in 2004 under executive producer Yoshimitsu Banno as a short IMAX 3D film, but was transferred to Legendary in 2009 to be redeveloped as a full-length feature. The film was announced in March 2010 and Edwards was announced as the director in January 2011. Principal photography began in March 2013 in the United States and Canada and ended in July 2013.
Godzilla was theatrically released on May 16, 2014. The film received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised the direction, visual effects, music, cinematography, respect to the source material, and Cranston's performance, but criticized the script, characters, and Godzilla's insufficient screen time. The film was a box office success, grossing $529.1 million worldwide against a production budget of $160 million. The film's success prompted Toho to produce a reboot of their own and released Shin Godzilla in 2016; Toho has since produced several follow-ups. Likewise, Legendary proceeded with sequels of their own, culminating in a shared cinematic franchise.
A sequel, Godzilla: King of the Monsters, was released on May 31, 2019.

Title: Asteroid City
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asteroid_City
Excerpt: Asteroid City (stylized in all caps) is a 2023 American science fiction comedy drama film written, directed, and produced by Wes Anderson, from a story he developed with Roman Coppola. The ensemble cast includes Jason Schwartzman, Scarlett Johansson, Tom Hanks, Jeffrey Wright, Tilda Swinton, Bryan Cranston, Edward Norton, Adrien Brody, Liev Schreiber, Hope Davis, Steve Park, Rupert Friend, Maya Hawke, Steve Carell, Matt Dillon, Hong Chau, Willem Dafoe, Margot Robbie, Tony Revolori, Jake Ryan, and Jeff Goldblum. Its plot mostly presents a stage play set in a retrofuturistic version of 1955, which follows a Junior Stargazer convention and the unexpected arrival of extraterrestrials and UFOs to the titular town in the American Southwestern desert, which is in close proximity to atomic test sites created after World War II. The play is contexualised through a television documentary following the creation of the show itself, adding a layer of metatextuality.
The project was announced in September 2020 as an untitled romance film, with Anderson writing, producing and directing, alongside Jeremy Dawson of American Empirical Pictures and Steven Rales of Indian Paintbrush. In February 2021, it was described as being about a "group of brainy teenagers". Originally set for Rome, filming took place in Chinchón, Spain, between August and October, 2021, with cinematographer Robert D. Yeoman. Several sets resembling a desert landscape and a mock train station were used. Post-production included editor Barney Pilling and a musical score composed by frequent Anderson composer Alexandre Desplat, featuring country and western songs from many artists. The official title for Asteroid City was revealed in October 2021 at the BFI London Film Festival.
Asteroid City premiered at the 76th Cannes Film Festival on May 23, 2023, where it competed for the Palme d'Or. It began a limited theatrical release through Focus Features in the United States on June 16, 2023, expanding to a wide release a week later. It grossed $54 million worldwide on a $25 million budget, and received generally positive reviews.

Title: One Battle After Another
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_Battle_After_Another
Excerpt: One Battle After Another is a 2025 American action-comedy thriller film written, directed, and produced by Paul Thomas Anderson. Inspired by the 1990 novel Vineland by Thomas Pynchon, the film's ensemble cast includes Leonardo DiCaprio, Sean Penn, Benicio del Toro, Regina Hall, Teyana Taylor, and Chase Infiniti, in her film debut. It follows a washed-up former revolutionary (DiCaprio) who is brought back into conflict when his enemy (Penn) resurfaces after sixteen years.
Anderson had wanted to adapt Vineland since the early 2000s, and eventually incorporated his own stories into the narrative while writing the screenplay. Principal photography took place in California from January to June 2024 using VistaVision, becoming one of the first films to use the format since the 1960s. Following its premiere on September 8, 2025, One Battle After Another was released in the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures on September 26. With a budget of $130–175 million, it is the most expensive film of Anderson's career and the highest-grossing at over $213 million worldwide.
One Battle After Another received acclaim and numerous accolades. At the 98th Academy Awards, it was nominated for 13 awards and won Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actor (Penn), Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Film Editing, and Best Casting. It also received one win from a record seven nominations at the 32nd Actor Awards; three wins at the 31st Critics' Choice Awards, including Best Picture; four wins at the 83rd Golden Globes, including Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy; and six wins at the 79th British Academy Film Awards, including Best Film. The film was listed by the American Film Institute as one of the top ten films of 2025 and won five awards from the National Board of Review, including Best Film.