Title: Rōnin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/R%C5%8Dnin
Excerpt: In feudal Japan to early modern Japan (1185–1868), a rōnin ( ROH-nin; Japanese: 浪人, IPA: [ɾoːɲiɴ], 'drifter' or 'wandering man', lit. 'unrestrained or dissolute person') was a samurai who had no lord or master and, in some cases, had also severed all links with his family or clan. A samurai became a rōnin upon the death of his master, or after the loss of his master's favor or legal privilege.
In modern Japanese, the term is usually used to describe a salaryman who is unemployed or a secondary school graduate who has not yet been admitted to university.

Title: Yasunari Kawabata
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yasunari_Kawabata
Excerpt: Yasunari Kawabata (川端 康成, Kawabata Yasunari; Japanese pronunciation: [ka.wa.ba.ta (|) ja.sɯꜜ.na.ɾʲi], 11 June 1899 – 16 April 1972) was a Japanese novelist and short story writer whose spare, lyrical, subtly-shaded prose works won him the 1968 Nobel Prize in Literature, the first Japanese author to receive the award. His works have enjoyed broad international appeal and are still widely read.

Title: Keigo Higashino
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keigo_Higashino
Excerpt: Keigo Higashino (Japanese: 東野 圭吾, Hepburn: Higashino Keigo; February 4, 1958 – July 23, 2026) was a Japanese author chiefly known for his mystery novels. He served as the 13th President of Mystery Writers of Japan from 2009 to 2013. Higashino won major Japanese awards for his books, almost twenty of which have been turned into films and television series.

Title: Demon (comics)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demon_(comics)
Excerpt: Demon is an American supernatural action comic by Jason Shiga. The comic, which follows a man who apparently cannot die, was self-published from 2014 to 2016 as a mini-comic and webcomic, then released as a four-volume, 720-page graphic novel by First Second Books in 2016 and 2017. It was unusually well-organized for a webcomic, having been entirely written and laid out before its release, with a well-founded story, consistent art, and daily updates.
The comic was received favourably by critics, who praised the clever story; its puzzles and plot twists; the artwork, which balanced the often grim subject matter; and the surprising humor. The comic won an Eisner Award and an Ignatz Award.

Title: Jujutsu Kaisen 0
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jujutsu_Kaisen_0
Excerpt: Jujutsu Kaisen 0 is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Gege Akutami. The manga, which was originally titled Tokyo Metropolitan Curse Technical School, was serialized in Shueisha's magazine Jump Giga from April to July 2017. After Akutami launched Jujutsu Kaisen in 2018, the series was retitled Jujutsu Kaisen 0—making it a prologue—and released in a single tankōbon volume in December 2018. It was licensed for English release in North America by Viz Media. The series follows Yuta Okkotsu, a young student who becomes a sorcerer and seeks to control the Cursed Spirit of his childhood friend Rika Orimoto.
Akutami wrote the series without any specific themes in mind, but he wanted to create cool-looking characters. Two editors often supported him while writing the manga. Jujutsu Kaisen 0 received an anime film adaptation by MAPPA, which was directed by Sunghoo Park and premiered in Japan in December 2021.
The manga was a commercial success in both Japan and North America. Critical response to the manga was generally positive; several reviewers praised Yuta's role and his relationship with Rika. Critics found Yuta more compelling than Jujutsu Kaisen's protagonist, Yuji Itadori, who, while having several similarities with Yuta, has a different characterization.