Title: Liberace
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberace
Excerpt: Władziu Valentino Liberace (May 16, 1919 – February 4, 1987) was an American pianist, singer, and actor. He was born in Wisconsin to parents of Italian and Polish origin and enjoyed a career spanning four decades of concerts, recordings, television, motion pictures, and endorsements. At the height of his fame, from the 1950s to 1970s, he was the highest-paid entertainer in the world, with established concert residencies in Las Vegas and an international touring schedule.
Liberace became popular with general audiences through performances that included showmanship and elaborate costumes and choreography. Critical reception was mixed, with some believing his playing was flashy but lacked depth.
In 1959 Liberace successfully sued the Daily Mirror for libel after they published an article implying he was homosexual (which was criminalized at the time). Later, in 1982, he was sued by his lover and chauffeur, Scott Thorson, for palimony. He continued to deny he was homosexual.

Title: Indianapolis 500 traditions
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indianapolis_500_traditions
Excerpt: Due to the longevity of the Indianapolis 500, numerous traditions surrounding the race have developed over the years. Traditions include procedures for the running of the race, scheduling, and pre-race and post-race festivities. For many fans, these traditions are an important aspect of the race, and they have often reacted quite negatively when the traditions are changed or broken.
As part of the Memorial Day holiday weekend, the pre-race ceremonies of the Indianapolis 500 feature several patriotic songs. Like most other sporting events, the national anthem is performed before the race by a notable vocalist. The most noteworthy and most popular traditions are the annual singing of the chorus of "Back Home Again in Indiana," and the victory lane bottle of milk.

Title: What the Water Gave Me (song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/What_the_Water_Gave_Me_(song)
Excerpt: "What the Water Gave Me" is a song by English indie rock band Florence and the Machine from their second studio album, Ceremonials (2011). The song was written by lead singer Florence Welch and Francis "Eg" White, and produced by Paul Epworth. It was released on 23 August 2011 as the first promotional single from Ceremonials. After the band performed the song in Berkeley, California, on 12 June 2011, the studio version premiered on Florence and the Machine's official website. Welch decided to name the song "What the Water Gave Me" after seeing the 1938 Frida Kahlo painting of the same name. During an interview, she confirmed that the song was inspired by English writer Virginia Woolf.
"What the Water Gave Me" is a pop, pop rock and soul song performed in tempo of 124 beats per minute. It incorporates several instruments into its composition, most notably harps and guitar. The accompanying music video for the song was filmed at Abbey Road Studios and it showed the band recording and singing the song. Upon its release, the song made its way into several chart most notably at number 24 on the UK Singles Chart. It also became the second song by Florence and the Machine which charted on the US Billboard Hot 100.

Title: Ceremonials
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ceremonials
Excerpt: Ceremonials is the second studio album by English indie rock band Florence and the Machine. It was released on 28 October 2011 by Island Records. The band started working on the album in 2010 and finished it in 2011. The standard edition of the album was entirely produced by Paul Epworth, who also worked prominently on the band's debut album Lungs (2009).
Ceremonials received generally positive reviews from music critics, who drew comparisons to artists such as Kate Bush, while also praising the instrumentation, Florence Welch's vocals and the production of the songs. It appeared on several year-end critics' lists in late 2011. At the 55th Annual Grammy Awards, the album received a nomination for Best Pop Vocal Album, while "Shake It Out" was nominated for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance. Ceremonials debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart, becoming the band's second consecutive number-one album. It also debuted at number one in Australia, Ireland and New Zealand, and peaked at number six on the US Billboard 200, becoming the band's first top-10 album in the United States. It has sold 2 million copies worldwide.
Five singles were released from Ceremonials. "What the Water Gave Me" was released on 23 August 2011 as a teaser for the album. "Shake It Out" was released on 30 September 2011 as the album's official lead single, becoming one of the band's most commercially successful singles to date. "No Light, No Light" was released on 16 January 2012 as the second single from the album, and "Never Let Me Go" was released on 30 March 2012. "Spectrum (Say My Name)" was released on 5 July 2012, and fuelled by a remix by Scottish DJ Calvin Harris, became Florence and the Machine's first number-one single in the UK. The album's fifth and final single, "Lover to Lover", was released on 30 November 2012. Ceremonials was also promoted by the band by a worldwide tour, the Ceremonials Tour (2011–12). The album's sound is described as baroque pop, art pop, indie pop, neo soul, power pop and gothic pop.

Title: Lover to Lover
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lover_to_Lover
Excerpt: "Lover to Lover" is a song by English indie rock band Florence and the Machine. The song was released on 30 November 2012, as a digital download on iTunes as the fifth and final single from their second studio album Ceremonials (2011). The song was written by Florence Welch and Francis "Eg" White and produced by Paul Epworth. The Ceremonials Tour version of "Lover to Lover" is an edited version of the original with further production by Chris Hayden. The song became the band's first single to miss the top 200 in the UK Singles Chart.