Title: Ford Mondeo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ford_Mondeo
Excerpt: The Ford Mondeo is a mid-size/large family car (D-segment) that was manufactured and marketed by Ford across five generations of models from 1993 to 2022. As a self-declared world car, the Mondeo was intended to consolidate the European Sierra, the Telstar in Asia and Australia, and the Tempo/Mercury Topaz in North America. The first two generations used the CDW27 platform, the third-generation model used the EUCD platform, the fourth-generation used the CD4 platform, and the fifth-generation used the C2 platform.
Ford announced in March 2021 that it would discontinue Mondeo production in Europe and Argentina with no direct successor. Production of the Mondeo ended in Europe in March 2022.
The Mondeo nameplate derives from the Latin word mundus, meaning "world".

Title: Ford Escape
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ford_Escape
Excerpt: The Ford Escape is a compact crossover SUV manufactured and marketed by the Ford Motor Company from the 2001 to the 2026 model years across four generations, as Ford's first SUV derived from a car platform.
Introduced for model year 2005, the Escape's hybrid electric variant was both Ford's first hybrid-electric vehicle  and  the first hybrid SUV in the U.S. market by any manufacturer. The Escape was sized between the Ford EcoSport and Ford Edge.
The first two generations used the Ford CD2 platform, jointly developed with Mazda, and was co-developed with two  rebadged variants, the Mazda Tribute and Mercury Mariner. All three were marketed in North America, although the Mariner was not marketed in Canada. The Escape was marketed in Europe as the Ford Maverick for model years 2001- 2008.
Under the mid-2000s "One Ford" globalization strategy, the third and fourth-generation designs of the Escape were co-developed with the Ford Kuga, designed by Ford of Europe.  Sharing a common body and chassis underpinnings (and several engines), the Escape and Kuga are manufactured in their respective home markets. As with previous generations, the fourth-generation Escape was offered with gasoline, hybrid, and plug-in hybrid options. Outside of North America, the Ford Escape is marketed in Australia, China, and Taiwan.

In August 2025, it was announced that Ford would discontinue the Escape after model year 2026.

Title: Ford Kuga
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ford_Kuga
Excerpt: The Ford Kuga is a compact crossover SUV (C-segment) manufactured by Ford since 2008, mainly for the European market, and now in its third generation. Both front-wheel drive and four-wheel drive are offered.
The Kuga was originally European-designed and sold in Europe and a few other markets, but beginning in 2012 for the 2013 model year, it was marketed in North America as the Ford Escape. The Ford Kuga is marketed as the Ford Escape in North America, Australia, the Middle East, and several countries in the Americas.

Title: Ford Motor Company
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ford_Motor_Company
Excerpt: The Ford Motor Company (commonly known as Ford, sometimes abbreviated as FoMoCo) is an American multinational automobile manufacturer headquartered in Dearborn, Michigan, United States. It was founded by Henry Ford and incorporated on June 16, 1903. The company sells automobiles and commercial vehicles under the Ford brand, and luxury cars under its Lincoln brand. The company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the single-letter ticker symbol F and is controlled by the Ford family. They have minority ownership but a plurality of the voting power.
Ford introduced methods for large-scale manufacturing of cars and large-scale management of an industrial workforce using elaborately engineered manufacturing sequences typified by moving assembly lines. By 1914, these methods were known around the world as Fordism. Ford's former British subsidiaries Jaguar and Land Rover, acquired in 1989 and 2000, respectively, were sold to the Indian automaker Tata Motors in March 2008. Ford owned the Swedish automaker Volvo from 1999 to 2010. In the third quarter of 2010, Ford discontinued the Mercury brand, under which it had marketed middle priced cars in the United States, Canada, Mexico, and the Middle East since 1938.
Ford is the second-largest American-based automaker, behind General Motors, and the sixth-largest in the world, behind Toyota, Volkswagen Group, Hyundai Motor Group, Stellantis, and General Motors, based on 2022 vehicle production. The company went public in 1956 but the Ford family, through special Class B shares, retain 40 percent of the voting rights. During the 2008–2010 automotive industry crisis, the company struggled financially but did not have to be rescued by the federal government, unlike the other two major US automakers. Ford Motors has since returned to profitability, and was the eleventh-ranked overall American-based company in the 2018 Fortune 500 list, based on global revenues in 2017 of $156.7 billion. In 2023, Ford produced 4.4 million automobiles, and employed about 177,000 employees worldwide. The company operates joint ventures in China (Changan Ford and Jiangling Ford), Taiwan (Ford Lio Ho), Thailand (AutoAlliance Thailand), and Turkey (Ford Otosan). Ford owns a 32% stake in China's Jiangling Motors.

Title: Ford Bronco Sport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ford_Bronco_Sport
Excerpt: The Ford Bronco Sport is a compact crossover SUV sold by the Ford Motor Company and marketed under the Ford Bronco nameplate. It was released alongside the sixth generation Bronco body-on-frame SUV, featuring a similar retro and off-road styling in a smaller footprint. The vehicle is based on the front-wheel drive-based, unibody C2 platform, which is also used by the Ford Escape crossover and Maverick pickup.