Title: Heather Graham
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heather_Graham
Excerpt: Heather Joan Graham (born January 29, 1970) is an American actress. The accolades she has received include nominations for two Screen Actors Guild Awards, a Critics' Choice Movie Award, and an Independent Spirit Award.
After appearing in television commercials, her first starring role in a feature film came with the teen comedy License to Drive (1988), followed by the critically acclaimed film Drugstore Cowboy (1989). She then played supporting roles on the television series Twin Peaks (1991), and in films such as Six Degrees of Separation (1993) and Swingers (1996). She gained critical praise for her role as "Rollergirl" in the film Boogie Nights (1997). This led to major roles in the comedy films Bowfinger and Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me (both 1999).
Graham had leading roles in Say It Isn't So (2001) and From Hell (2001), and continued to play supporting roles in the films Mary (2005); The Hangover (2009) and its sequel, The Hangover Part III (2013); At Any Price (2012); and Horns (2013). She has had roles on television series such as Scrubs (2004–05) and Californication (2014). In 2018, Graham made her directorial debut with the comedy Half Magic.
Graham is a public advocate for Children International and supported the climate change campaign Global Cool in 2007.

Title: V. C. Andrews
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/V._C._Andrews
Excerpt: Cleo Virginia Andrews (June 6, 1923 – December 19, 1986), better known as Virginia C. Andrews or V. C. Andrews, was an American novelist. She was best known for her 1979 novel Flowers in the Attic, which inspired two movie adaptations and four sequels. While her novels are not classified by her publisher as Young Adult, their young protagonists have made them popular among teenagers for decades. After her death in 1986, a ghostwriter who was initially hired to complete two unfinished works has continued to publish books under her name.

Title: Flowers in the Attic (1987 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flowers_in_the_Attic_(1987_film)
Excerpt: Flowers in the Attic is a 1987 American psychological horror film directed by Jeffrey Bloom and starring Louise Fletcher, Victoria Tennant, Kristy Swanson, and Jeb Stuart Adams. Its plot follows four youngsters who, after the death of their father, are held captive in the attic of their abusive grandmother's sprawling estate by their cruel and manipulative mother. It is based on V. C. Andrews' 1979 novel of the same name.
At one point, Wes Craven was scheduled to direct the film, and had completed a screenplay draft. Producers were disturbed by his approach to the incest-laden story, and Jeffrey Bloom ended up with writing and directing duties.

Title: Coco (2017 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coco_(2017_film)
Excerpt: Coco is a 2017 American animated fantasy film produced by Pixar Animation Studios for Walt Disney Pictures. Directed by Lee Unkrich, and  written by Adrian Molina and Matthew Aldrich, the film stars the voices of Anthony Gonzalez, Gael García Bernal, Benjamin Bratt, Alanna Ubach, Renée Victor, Ana Ofelia Murguía and Edward James Olmos. It follows a 12-year-old boy in Mexico named Miguel (Gonzalez) who is accidentally transported to the Land of the Dead, where he seeks the help of his deceased musician great-great-grandfather to return him to his family and reverse their ban on music.
The concept for Coco is inspired by the Mexican holiday Day of the Dead. Pixar began developing the animation in 2016. Unkrich, Molina, Anderson and some of the film's crew visited Mexico for research. Composer Michael Giacchino, who had worked on prior Pixar animated features, composed the score. With a cost of $175–225 million, Coco is the first film with a nine-figure budget to feature an all-Latino principal cast.
Coco premiered on October 20, 2017, during the Morelia International Film Festival in Morelia, Mexico. It was theatrically released in Mexico the following week, the weekend before Día de Muertos, and in the United States on November 22, 2017. The film received critical acclaim for its animation, voice acting, music, visuals, emotional story, and respect for Mexican culture. It grossed over $823 million worldwide, becoming the 15th highest-grossing animated film ever at the time of its release. Coco received two awards at the 90th Academy Awards and numerous other accolades. The film was chosen by the National Board of Review as the Best Animated Film of 2017. A sequel, titled Coco 2, is scheduled to be released in November 2029.

Title: Crazy Rich Asians
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crazy_Rich_Asians
Excerpt: Crazy Rich Asians is a 2018 American romantic comedy drama film directed by Jon M. Chu from a screenplay by Peter Chiarelli and Adele Lim, based on the 2013 novel by Kevin Kwan. The film stars Constance Wu, Henry Golding, Gemma Chan, Lisa Lu, Awkwafina, Ken Jeong, and Michelle Yeoh. It follows a Chinese American professor, Rachel, who travels to Singapore with her boyfriend Nick and is shocked to discover that Nick's family is one of the richest families in Singapore.
The film was announced in August 2012 after the rights to the book were purchased. Many of the cast members signed on in the spring of 2017, and filming took place from April to June of that year in parts of Singapore, Malaysia, and New York City. It is the first film by a major Hollywood studio to feature a majority cast of Chinese descent in a modern setting since The Joy Luck Club in 1993. Despite praise in the United States for its Asian representation, the film also received criticism for casting few actors from Singapore, from Southeast Asia, or of fully ethnically Chinese heritage; for not fully portraying Singapore's multiracial population, and, some said, for perpetuating stereotypes of East Asians.
Crazy Rich Asians premiered on August 7, 2018, at the TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles and was released theatrically in the United States on August 15, 2018, by Warner Bros. Pictures. The film grossed over $238 million against a $30 million budget, making it the highest-grossing romantic comedy of the 2010s, and received praise for the performances of the cast, screenplay, and production design. It received nominations for two Golden Globe Awards (including Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy), three NAACP Image Awards (including Outstanding Motion Picture), four Critics' Choice Awards (winning Best Comedy), and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture. As of November 2025, two sequels, based on the novel's follow-ups China Rich Girlfriend and Rich People Problems, have been in and out of development for over seven years.