Title: Simon Pegg
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simon_Pegg
Excerpt: Simon John Pegg (né Beckingham; born 14 February 1970) is an English actor, comedian and screenwriter. He came to prominence in the UK as the co-creator of the Channel 4 sitcom Spaced (1999–2001), directed by Edgar Wright. He and Wright co-wrote the films Shaun of the Dead (2004), Hot Fuzz (2007), and The World's End (2013), known collectively as the Three Flavours Cornetto trilogy, all of which saw Wright directing and Pegg starring alongside Nick Frost. Pegg and Frost also wrote and starred in the sci-fi comedy film Paul (2011).
Pegg is one of the few performers to have achieved what Radio Times calls the "Holy Grail of Nerd-dom", having played popular supporting characters in Doctor Who (2005), Star Trek as Montgomery "Scotty" Scott (2009–2016), and Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2015). He starred as Benji Dunn in six Mission: Impossible films, beginning with Mission: Impossible III (2006) and ending with Mission: Impossible – The Final Reckoning (2025). He has also provided the voice of Buck in the Ice Age film series (2009–present).

Title: Method Man
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Method_Man
Excerpt: Clifford Smith Jr. (born March 2, 1971), known professionally as Method Man, is an American rapper, record producer, and actor. He is a member of the East Coast hip-hop group Wu-Tang Clan, and is half of the hip-hop duo Method Man & Redman. His debut solo album, Tical (1994), peaked at number four on the Billboard 200 and spawned the single "I'll Be There for You/You're All I Need to Get By" (featuring Mary J. Blige), which won Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group at the 38th Annual Grammy Awards. The song also peaked within the top five of the Billboard Hot 100; he and Blige later starred in Power Book II: Ghost, a spin-off of Power.
Method Man has appeared in films such as 187 (1997),  Belly (1998), How High (2001), Garden State (2004), The Wackness (2008), Venom (2005), Red Tails (2012),  Keanu (2016), The Cobbler (2014) and Bad Shabbos (2024). He and Redman co-starred on the short-lived Fox television sitcom Method & Red. He has also had recurring roles in three HBO series, as Tug Daniels in Oz, Melvin "Cheese" Wagstaff in The Wire, and Rodney in The Deuce. Method Man also appeared in the TBS comedy series The Last O.G. (2018–22).
His stage name is a tribute to the 1979 martial arts film Method Man.

Title: Butch Hartman
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Butch_Hartman
Excerpt: Elmer Earl "Butch" Hartman IV (born January 10, 1965) is an American animator, illustrator, writer, producer, director, and voice actor. He is best known for creating the animated television shows The Fairly OddParents, Danny Phantom, T.U.F.F. Puppy, and Bunsen Is a Beast for Nickelodeon. He founded the company Billionfold Inc. in 2003 to produce the shows. Hartman executive produced all 4 of his Nickelodeon shows for their entire runs. His work has been nominated for multiple Daytime/Primetime Emmys, Annie Awards and won several BMI Film & TV Awards.
In February 2018, Hartman announced his departure from Nickelodeon after almost 20 years; this resulted in the end of Bunsen Is a Beast production after one season. 
In 2021, he returned to the studio to produce The Fairly OddParents: Fairly Odder, a live-action Fairly OddParents sequel which premiered on Paramount+ the following year and aired for one season. In 2023, his first non-secular animated program, The Garden, premiered on the Christian streaming service Pure Flix.

Title: Mega Man Battle Network
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mega_Man_Battle_Network
Excerpt: Mega Man Battle Network is a tactical role-playing video game series created by Masahiro Yasuma and developed and published by Capcom as a spin-off of the Mega Man series. Released in 2001 for the Game Boy Advance, it takes place in an alternate continuity of Mega Man where computers and networking technology was the main focus on scientific advancement, rather than robotics. There are a total of six mainline games, alongside several spin-offs.
Created amidst the success of Nintendo's and Game Freak's Pokémon series, alongside the rise of collectable card games, Mega Man Battle Network has players control MegaMan.EXE, a NetNavi operated by Lan Hikari as they attempt to stop the schemes of a net-crime organization called WWW (called "World Three"), headed by the universe's interpretation of Dr. Wily. Players battle enemies on a 6x3 grid, selecting "Battle Chips" which allow for more powerful attacks.
The series has been met with positive reviews from critics, although later games, particularly 5 and 6, have been criticized for a perceived lack of innovation; the series was followed-up by a sequel series titled Mega Man Star Force, which is set 200 years after Battle Network and focuses on radio waves. A compilation of all six mainline entries, Mega Man Battle Network Legacy Collection, was released in April 2023 for PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch and PC.

Title: Creativity (religion)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creativity_(religion)
Excerpt: Creativity is an atheistic new religious movement espousing white separatism, antitheism, antisemitism, anti-Christianity, scientific racism, homophobia, and religious/philosophical naturalism. Creativity is an openly racist religion urging for "White pride" and has been classified as a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center and the Anti-Defamation League. It was established in Lighthouse Point, Florida, United States, by Ben Klassen as the religion of his Church of the Creator (COTC) in 1973. It now has a presence in several states of the U.S. as well as Australia, Eastern Europe, and the United Kingdom.
Creativity was initially the religion of Klassen's COTC. After his death in 1993, he was succeeded as leader by Matthew F. Hale (who renamed it the New Church of the Creator, then the World Church of the Creator). When Hale was arrested and sentenced to 40 years in prison in 2003, two groups were created that continue to uphold the religion: the Creativity Alliance (CA also known as the Church of Creativity), and the Creativity Movement. The two groups have common origins.
Creativity claims a naturalistic and racialistic worldview, based on the "survival, expansion and advancement of the White race", according to what the group classifies as the "eternal laws of nature, the experience of history, on logic and common sense". Members of the group believe in a "racial holy war" between "white and non-white races", such as Jews, black people, and mixed-race people.