Title: Salgaocar FC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salgaocar_FC
Excerpt: Salgaocar Football Club, formerly known as Salgaocar Sporting Club, is an Indian professional football club based in Vasco, Goa. Being one of the country's most successful clubs, it is currently operating youth teams only. Until the dissolution of its senior team in June 2023, Salgaocar competed in the Goa Professional League.
Salgaocar previously competed in the I-League, then top-flight of the Indian football league system. Founded in 1956, and nicknamed "The Greens", the club is owned by V. M. Salgaocar Group of Companies. Salgaocar has won 21 Goa championships, 4 Federation Cups, 3 Durand Cups, 3 Rovers Cups, 2 Indian Super Cups and the National Football League in 1999, and the I-League in 2011. They became the first Goan side to win the National Football League, under the guidance of coach Shabbir Ali. It is also the first Goan club to win the following: 
Goa Super Division, Federation Cup, Goa Professional League, Durand Cup and the former Indian Super Cup. Salgaocar pulled out of the I-League in 2017, citing the All India Football Federation (AIFF) bias.

Title: East Bengal FC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_Bengal_FC
Excerpt: East Bengal Football Club, commonly referred to as East Bengal, is an Indian professional football club based in Kolkata. The club competes in the Indian Super League, the top flight of the Indian football league system. They are the second most successful clubs in India only behind Mohun Bagan, having won Four National League titles, in addition to a record forty-one state league titles. The club has enjoyed significant success in domestic cup competitions including the Federation Cup/Super Cup trophies, making it one of the most decorated football clubs in India.
It is one of the three biggest clubs of Kolkata, and participates in the well-renowned Kolkata derby against its long time rivals Mohun Bagan. The club also plays in the mini Kolkata derby with Mohammedan. Founded in August 1920, the club became affiliated with the Indian Football Association in 1922 and initially played in the Calcutta Football League Second Division, before earning promotion to the First Division in 1924. East Bengal won its maiden First Division league title in 1942. The club was a founding member of the National Football League, the first nation-wide football league in 1996, which it has won 3 times. The club has also won several other trophies, including the Durand Cup 17 times, the Super Cup 3 times, the IFA Shield a record 29 times, the Rovers Cup 10 times, the DCM Trophy 7 times, the Darjeeling Gold Cup 5 times and the McDowell's Cup 3 times. East Bengal has won an international title, the 2003 ASEAN Club Championship.

Title: NEROCA FC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NEROCA_FC
Excerpt: NEROCA Football Club (known fully as North Eastern Re-Organising Cultural Association Football Club) is an Indian professional football club based in Imphal, Manipur, that currently competes in the I-League 2. It previously competed in the I-League, the second tier of the Indian football league system. Founded in 1965 and nicknamed "The Orange Brigade", the club made their I-League 2nd Division debut in the 2015–16 season. Winning the 2016–17 league, they secured promotion to the I-League. NEROCA is the first club from Northeast India to reach the final of the coveted Durand Cup. The club also competes in the Manipur State League.

Title: Real Kashmir FC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_Kashmir_FC
Excerpt: Real Kashmir Football Club is an Indian professional football club based in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir. Incorporated in 2016, the club currently competes in the Indian Football League, the second tier of the Indian football league system. Real Kashmir with its reserve side also participates in the Jammu & Kashmir Premier Football League regionally.
Nicknamed "Sheeni Seh" (transl. Snow Leopards), Real Kashmir is the first club from Jammu and Kashmir to earn promotion in any top flight football league of the country. They also won the IFA Shield title in 2022. Club's futsal section has been competing in the state league, as well as AIFF Futsal Club Championship, the highest division in the country.

Title: Mohun Bagan Super Giant
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohun_Bagan_Super_Giant
Excerpt: Mohun Bagan Super Giant, commonly referred to as Mohun Bagan (Bengali: [moɦɔn baɡan]), is an Indian professional football club based in Kolkata, West Bengal. Founded in 1889, it is one of the oldest football clubs in Asia. The club competes in the Indian Super League, the top tier of the Indian football league system. They are the most successful club in India and one of the most successful in Asia, winning a record cumulative number of 265 trophies. They have won more than 5,000 matches in their football history, which is the highest by an Asian club. The club's first notable victory came against the East Yorkshire Regiment in the 1911 IFA Shield final, when its players played barefooted. This victory made Mohun Bagan the first all-Indian club to win championship over a British club, and was a major moment during India's push for independence. 
The club was founded as Mohun Bagan Sporting Club in 1889, which was later changed to Mohun Bagan Athletic Club and often shortened to just Mohun Bagan. From 1998 to 2015, the club took on the name McDowell Mohun Bagan due to sponsorship reasons. In 2017, Mohun Bagan Football Club (India) Pvt Ltd was created as the legal footballing entity of Mohun Bagan Athletic Club. On 16 January 2020, it was announced that the RPSG Group (KGSPL), the owners of ATK FC, along with former cricketer Sourav Ganguly and businessmen Utsav Parekh, acquired an 80% stake in Mohun Bagan Football Club (India) Pvt Ltd. ATK FC was officially disbanded on 1 July 2020, and Mohun Bagan entered the Indian Super League in the 2020–21 season with the name ATK Mohun Bagan FC. In 2023, after severe protests from the Mohun Bagan supporters all around, KGSPL removed the term ATK and changed the name to Mohun Bagan Super Giant.
Mohun Bagan have won a record 7 Indian League titles — the National Football League 3 times, the I-League 2 times and the Indian Super League Shield 2 times. They are the most successful Indian club in the history of the Federation Cup, having won the championship a record 14 times. The club has also won several other trophies, including the ISL playoffs (also known as the ISL Cup) 2 times, the Durand Cup a record 17 times, the Indian Super Cup 2 times, the IFA Shield 23 times, the Rovers Cup a record 14 times and the Calcutta Football League 30 times. Mohun Bagan have also won the Trades Cup a record 11 times, the Sikkim Gold Cup a record 10 times, the Bordoloi Trophy a record 7 times and the All Airlines Gold Cup a record 8 times. The first trophy won by Mohun Bagan was the Cooch Behar Cup in 1904, which they have won a record 18 times.
In the 2024–25 Indian Super League, Mohun Bagan became the first club to successfully defend the League Shield and 7th Indian League title. Mohun Bagan achieved the league and cup double for the first time. In the same season, Mohun Bagan became the 1st ISL club to cross the 50 seasonal points.

The club annually contests in Asia's oldest and biggest rivalry, the Kolkata Derby against its long-time local rival East Bengal, with the first derby match being played on 8 August 1921. Mohun Bagan was one of the founding members of National Football League in 1996, and has never been relegated from the top-tier league of the country. On 29 July 2019, during its 130th year, the club was inducted into the "Club of Pioneers", a network of the oldest existing football clubs around the world.