Title: Muammar Gaddafi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muammar_Gaddafi
Excerpt: Muammar Muhammad Abu Minyar al-Gaddafi (c. 1942 – 20 October 2011) was a Libyan military officer, revolutionary, politician, and political theorist who ruled Libya from 1969 until his overthrow by Libyan rebel forces in 2011 during the First Libyan Civil War. He came to power through a bloodless military coup, first becoming Revolutionary Chairman of the Libyan Arab Republic from 1969 to 1977, Secretary General of the General People's Congress from 1977 to 1979, and then the Brotherly Leader of the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya from 1979 to 2011. Initially ideologically committed to Arab nationalism and Arab socialism, Gaddafi later ruled according to his own Third International Theory.
Gaddafi became an Arab nationalist while at school in Sabha, later enrolling in the Royal Military Academy, Benghazi. He founded a revolutionary group known as the Free Officers movement which deposed the Western-backed Senussi monarchy of Idris I in a 1969 coup. Gaddafi converted Libya into a republic governed by his Revolutionary Command Council. Ruling by decree, he deported Libya's Italian population and ejected its Western military bases. 
He strengthened ties to Arab nationalist governments and unsuccessfully advocated pan-Arab political union. An Islamic modernist, he introduced Sharia law and promoted Islamic socialism. He nationalized the oil industry and used the increasing state revenues to bolster the military, fund foreign revolutionaries, and implement social programs emphasizing housebuilding, healthcare and education projects. In 1973, he initiated a "Popular Revolution" with the formation of Basic People's Congresses, presented as a system of direct democracy, but retained personal control over major decisions. He outlined his Third International Theory that year in The Green Book.
In 1977, Gaddafi transformed Libya into a new socialist state called a Jamahiriya ("state of the masses"). He officially adopted a symbolic role in governance but remained head of both the military and the Revolutionary Committees responsible for policing and suppressing dissent. During the 1970s and 1980s, Libya's unsuccessful border conflicts with Egypt and Chad, support for foreign militants and alleged responsibility for bombings of Pan Am Flight 103 and UTA Flight 772 left it increasingly isolated on the world stage.
A particularly hostile relationship developed with Israel, the United States and the United Kingdom, resulting in the 1986 U.S. bombing of Libya and United Nations–imposed economic sanctions. From 1999, Gaddafi shunned pan-Arabism, and encouraged pan-Africanism and rapprochement with Western nations; he was Chairperson of the African Union from 2009 to 2010. Amid the 2011 Arab Spring, protests against widespread corruption and unemployment broke out in eastern Libya. The situation descended into civil war, in which NATO intervened militarily on the side of the anti-Gaddafist National Transitional Council (NTC). Gaddafi's government was overthrown; he retreated to Sirte only to be captured, tortured and killed by NTC militants.
A highly divisive figure, Gaddafi dominated Libya's politics for four decades and was the subject of a pervasive cult of personality. He was decorated with various awards and praised for his anti-imperialist stance, support for Arab—and then African—unity, as well as for significant development to the country after the discovery of oil reserves. Conversely, many Libyans strongly opposed Gaddafi's social and economic reforms; he was accused of various human rights violations. He was condemned by many as a dictator whose authoritarian administration systematically violated human rights and financed terrorism in the region and abroad.

Title: Malay trade and creole languages
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malay_trade_and_creole_languages
Excerpt: In addition to its classical and modern literary form, Malay had various regional dialects established after the rise of the Srivijaya empire in Sumatra, Indonesia. Also, Malay spread through interethnic contact and trade across the south East Asia Archipelago as far as the Philippines. That contact resulted in a lingua franca ("trade language") that was called Bazaar Malay or low Malay and in Malay Melayu Pasar. It is generally believed that Bazaar Malay was a pidgin, influenced by contact among Malay, Hokkien, Portuguese, and Dutch traders.
Besides the general simplification that occurs with pidgins, the Malay lingua franca had several distinctive characteristics. One was that possessives were formed with punya 'its owner, to have'; another was that plural pronouns were formed with orang 'person'. The only Malayic affixes that remained productive were tər- and bər-.
Other common features:

Ada became a progressive particle.
Reduced forms of ini 'this' and itu 'that' (>ni, tu) before a noun.
The verb pərgi 'go' was reduced, and became a preposition 'towards'.
Causative constructions were formed with kasi or bəri 'to give' or bikin or buat 'to make'.
A single preposition, often sama, was used for multiple functions, including direct and indirect object.
For example,

Rumahku 'my house' becomes Aku punya rumah (lit. 'I have (that) house')
Aku pukul dia 'I hit him' becomes Aku kasi pukul dia (lit. 'I give a hit to him')
Ardi dipukul oleh Dani 'Ardi is hit by Dani' becomes Ardi kena pukul dek Dani

Title: Abdullah Senussi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abdullah_Senussi
Excerpt: Abdullah Senussi (Arabic: عبد الله السنوسي) (  əb-DUL-ə ahl sə-NOO-see) is a Libyan national who was the intelligence chief and brother-in-law of former Libyan leader Colonel Muammar Gaddafi. He was married to Gaddafi's sister-in-law.
In June 1996, he was involved in the Abu Salim prison massacre.
In 1999, he was sentenced in absentia by a French court to life imprisonment for the 1989 bombing of UTA Flight 772. And an international arrest warrant was issued against him.
In 2011, Scottish police officers planned to interview him in connection with the Lockerbie bombing.

Title: Killing of Muammar Gaddafi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Killing_of_Muammar_Gaddafi
Excerpt: Muammar Gaddafi, a former leader of Libya, was murdered by the National Transitional Council (NTC) on 20 October 2011 after the Battle of Sirte. Gaddafi was captured by NTC forces and killed extrajudicially shortly afterwards.
The NTC initially claimed Gaddafi succumbed to injuries sustained in a firefight when loyalist forces attempted to free him, although a video of his last moments shows rebel fighters dragging Gaddafi out of a drainage pipe, beating him and one of them sodomizing him with a bayonet before he was shot several times.
The murder of Gaddafi was criticized as a violation of international law. Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch called for an independent autopsy and an investigation into how Gaddafi died.

Title: Central Flores languages
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Flores_languages
Excerpt: The Central Flores languages (from Ngadha–Lio) are a subgroup of the Austronesian language family. They are spoken in the central part of Flores, one of the Lesser Sunda Islands in the eastern half of Indonesia. The speech area of the Central Flores languages is bordered to the west by the Manggarai language, and to the east by the Sikka language.