Title: Naruhito
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naruhito
Excerpt: Naruhito (born 23 February 1960) is Emperor of Japan. He acceded to the Chrysanthemum Throne on 1 May 2019 following the abdication of his father, Akihito. He is the 126th monarch, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign is known as the Reiwa era.
Naruhito is the elder son of Emperor Emeritus Akihito and Empress Emerita Michiko. He was born during the reign of his paternal grandfather, Hirohito. He became heir apparent following his father's accession in 1989, and was formally invested as Crown Prince in 1991. He attended Gakushūin schools in Tokyo and later studied history at Gakushuin University and English at Merton College, Oxford. He married the diplomat Masako Owada in 1993. They have one daughter: Aiko, Princess Toshi. 
Continuing his grandfather's and father's boycott over the enshrinement of convicted war criminals, he has never visited Yasukuni Shrine. He is an advocate in the fields of water policy and water conservation. He was an honorary president of the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics and is a supporter of the World Organization of the Scout Movement.

Title: Empress Masako
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Empress_Masako
Excerpt: Masako (Japanese: 雅子; born Masako Owada (小和田雅子, Owada Masako); 9 December 1963) is Empress of Japan as the wife of Emperor Naruhito.
Born in Minato, Tokyo, Masako was educated at Belmont High School in Massachusetts, United States, before attending Harvard College. She also studied law at the University of Tokyo and international relations at Balliol College, Oxford. After completing her studies, she worked for Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a diplomat.
Masako met Crown Prince Naruhito in 1986. They married in 1993 and their only child, Aiko, Princess Toshi, was born in 2001. The birth of Princess Aiko fueled the ongoing Japanese imperial succession debate, which had led some politicians to favor rescinding the agnatic primogeniture imposed by the Allies of World War II on the Constitution of Japan. However, with the birth of a son to Naruhito's brother, Fumihito, in 2006, no amendments were made and Princess Aiko remains ineligible to inherit the throne.
The pressure to produce a male heir affected Masako's health. She was diagnosed with adjustment disorder in 2004, which forced her to withdraw from public life periodically. As crown princess and later empress, Masako has accompanied her husband on official visits abroad and at ceremonies in the imperial court.

Title: Aiko, Princess Toshi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aiko,_Princess_Toshi
Excerpt: Aiko, Princess Toshi (敬宮愛子内親王, Toshi-no-miya Aiko Naishinnō; born 1 December 2001) is a member of the Imperial House of Japan. She is the only child of Emperor Naruhito and Empress Masako.
Following her birth, the ongoing Japanese imperial succession debate had resulted in some politicians holding a favorable view on rescinding agnatic primogeniture (male-only imperial succession) originally implemented in 1889 and retained by the Allies of World War II on the Constitution of Japan. However, once her uncle Crown Prince Fumihito had a son, Hisahito, in September 2006, Hisahito became second in the line of succession following his father. Aiko remains at present legally ineligible to inherit the throne and she cannot succeed her father, while debate about the possibility of having future empresses regnant continues.

Title: Kiko, Crown Princess of Japan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kiko,_Crown_Princess_of_Japan
Excerpt: Kiko, Crown Princess Akishino (皇嗣文仁親王妃紀子, Kōshi Fumihito Shinnō-hi Kiko) (born Kiko Kawashima (川嶋紀子, Kawashima Kiko); 11 September 1966) is a member of the Imperial House of Japan. She is married to Crown Prince Fumihito, the heir presumptive to the Japanese throne.
Kiko earned a doctoral degree in humanities from Ochanomizu University. Her marriage to Prince Fumihito in 1990 reflected a trend in which members of the imperial family married academically accomplished commoners from the middle class, continuing a pattern observed in previous and current generations. The couple has three children: Mako, Kako, and Hisahito.
Prior to their investiture as Crown Prince and Crown Princess, the ongoing Japanese imperial succession debate had prompted discussions among some lawmakers about revising the male-only succession rule (agnatic primogeniture) established by the Allies of World War II in the postwar constitution of Japan. The birth of Prince Hisahito in September 2006, however, secured the line of succession for male heirs, placing him immediately after his father. Hisahito's cousin, Princess Aiko, the only child of Emperor Naruhito, remains legally ineligible to inherit the throne, though debate continues over the potential for future empresses regnant.
As active working members of the imperial family, Kiko and Fumihito regularly participate in official duties, including attendance at summits, organizational meetings, and international events. They frequently represent the Imperial Household at ceremonies involving heads of state and other dignitaries abroad. Kiko's patronages focus primarily on medical, scientific, and children's welfare initiatives.

Title: Mako Komuro
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mako_Komuro
Excerpt: Mako Komuro (小室 眞子, Komuro Mako; born 23 October 1991), formerly Princess Mako of Akishino (眞子内親王, Mako Naishinnō), is a Japanese art historian and a former member of the Japanese imperial family. She is the eldest child of Crown Prince Fumihito and Crown Princess Kiko, niece of Emperor Naruhito, and granddaughter of Emperor Emeritus Akihito and his wife, Empress Emerita Michiko. In October 2021, upon her marriage to a commoner, Princess Mako formally lost her title, as required by the Imperial Household Law.