Title: Club Atlético Vélez Sarsfield
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Club_Atl%C3%A9tico_V%C3%A9lez_Sarsfield
Excerpt: Club Atlético Vélez Sarsfield (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈsaɾfil]) is an Argentine sports club based in Liniers, Buenos Aires. Its football team plays in Primera División, the highest level of the Argentine league system. Founded in 1910, the club has spent most of its history in the top tier of Argentine football. The club's home ground is the 49,540-capacity José Amalfitani Stadium, where they have played since 1951.
One of the most successful clubs in Argentine football, Vélez Sarsfield had their first major success in 1968, when they won the league championship, and subsequently made regular seasons between 1970 and 1990. The club have enjoyed their greatest period of success in the past three decades, winning 17 trophies since 1993. Domestically, Vélez have won eleven Primera División titles, while in continental competitions have won five international cups (including both the Copa Libertadores and the Intercontinental Cup). It is one of eight teams to have won CONMEBOL's treble.
Vélez Sarsfield's regular kit colours are white shirts and shorts, with some details in blue. The club's crest has been changed several times in attempts to re-brand the club and modernise its image. It is one of the most supported clubs in Argentina. Apart from football the club takes part in other sports such as athletics, basketball, gymnastics, handball, field hockey, martial arts, tennis, roller skating and volleyball.

Title: LDU Quito
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LDU_Quito
Excerpt: Liga Deportiva Universitaria (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈliɣa ðepoɾˈtiβawniβeɾsiˈtaɾja]), commonly known as Liga de Quito or LDU Quito is an Ecuadorian professional football club based in Quito. They play in the Serie A, the highest level of the Ecuadorian professional football league. They play their home games at the Estadio Rodrigo Paz Delgado, more commonly referred to as Casa Blanca. Rival clubs include Quito-based clubs El Nacional, Deportivo Quito, Aucas and Universidad Católica.
Liga Deportiva Universitaria de Quito has its roots in the semi-pro sports teams in 1918 competing as "Universitario" at the Central University of Ecuador, and was officially founded on 11 January 1930. They began making an impact in the provincial leagues, winning nine Pichincha titles (six in the professional era). Their provincial success continued into the national league, where they have won 13 national title (4th overall) having won their most recent title in 2024.
Liga Deportiva Universitaria de Quito is the most successful Ecuadorian club in international competitions. The team was the first, and currently the only, Ecuadorian club to win the Copa Libertadores (2008), they have won two Copas Sudamericanas (2009 and 2023), and two Recopas Sudamericanas (2009 and 2010). They are one of only six teams—Boca Juniors, Independiente, River Plate, Internacional and São Paulo being the other five— to have achieved the CONMEBOL treble, winning all three continental club tournaments. LDU is the only team to win all three mentioned cups one after another between 2008 and 2010 causing them to be rated as the best South American team of 2008 and 2009. Additionally, Liga de Quito was the runner-up at the 2008 FIFA Club World Cup.

Title: Agustín Delgado
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agust%C3%ADn_Delgado
Excerpt: Agustín Javier Delgado Chalá (born 23 December 1974) is an Ecuadorian politician and former professional footballer who played as a forward. Nicknamed El Tín, he was the all-time top scorer for the Ecuador national team with 31 goals in 72 games, before being overtaken by Enner Valencia. Delgado played professional club football in Ecuador, Mexico and England.
Delgado made his debut for Ecuador against Peru in 1994. He was part of their squad at the FIFA World Cup in 2002 and 2006, becoming the first Ecuadorian to score a goal at the tournament.

Title: 2023–24 Liga Guate
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023%E2%80%9324_Liga_Guate
Excerpt: The 2023–24 Liga Guate, also known as Liga Guate Banrural for sponsorship reasons, was the 71st professional season of the top-flight football league in Guatemala. The season was divided into two championships—the 2023 Apertura and the 2024 Clausura—each in an identical format and each contested by the same 12 teams.

Title: Killing of Alex Pretti
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Killing_of_Alex_Pretti
Excerpt: On January 24, 2026, Alex Jeffrey Pretti, a 37-year-old American intensive care nurse for the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, was shot multiple times and killed by two United States Customs and Border Protection officers in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The incident occurred amid widespread protests against Operation Metro Surge and especially against the killing of Renée Good on January 7 by a United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent.
Pretti was filming law enforcement agents with his phone and directing traffic. At one point, he stood between an agent and a woman the agent had pushed to the ground, putting his arm around her. He was then pepper sprayed and wrestled to the ground by several federal agents, with around six surrounding him when he was shot and killed. Bystander video verified and reviewed by Reuters, the BBC, The Wall Street Journal, and the Associated Press (AP) appears to show an agent removing a gun from Pretti's holster and moving away from Pretti roughly one second before another agent fires at him. AP reported that a voice can be heard saying "gun, gun" right before the first shot.
Pretti was legally licensed to carry a handgun. In reviewing video evidence, Reuters, the BBC, The New York Times, CNN, and The Guardian all concluded that he was holding a cell phone, not a gun, in the moments before being tackled and pinned to the ground. Two agents appear to have shot at him at least ten times within five seconds, continuing after he lay motionless. A civilian recounted how nearly two dozen witnesses to the shooting were taken to and detained at the federally controlled Whipple Building for hours before being released. As with the Renée Good case, state investigators were denied access to the shooting scene by the federal government.
The Trump administration initially alleged, without presenting evidence, that Pretti was a domestic terrorist and out to massacre law enforcement, though these claims were contradicted by video evidence and witness testimony. The shooting accelerated ongoing protests against US immigration forces locally and nationally. The killing and the government's defense provoked widespread criticism, including from Republicans, forcing Trump to attempt a course correction. This move has been viewed with skepticism by local activists, who expect continued immigration enforcement in the region. Comments by Trump administration officials denouncing Pretti's possession of a firearm were condemned by gun rights groups, such as the National Rifle Association (NRA) and Gun Owners of America (GOA), which cited his rights under the Second Amendment.