Title: Gulag
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gulag
Excerpt: The Gulag was a system of labor camps in the Soviet Union. The word Gulag originally referred only to the division of the Soviet secret police that was in charge of running the forced labor camps from the 1930s to the early 1950s during Joseph Stalin's rule, but in English literature the term is popularly used for the system of forced labor throughout the Soviet era. The abbreviation GULAG (ГУЛАГ) stands for "Glávnoye upravléniye ispravítel'no-trudovýkh lageréy" (Гла́вное управле́ние исправи́тельно-трудовы́х лагере́й or "Main Directorate of Correctional Labour Camps"), but the full official name of the agency changed several times.
The Gulag is recognized as a major instrument of political repression in the Soviet Union. The camps housed both ordinary criminals and political prisoners, a large number of whom were convicted in accordance with simplified procedures, such as NKVD troikas or other instruments of extrajudicial punishment. The agency was established in 1930 and initially was administered by the OGPU (1923–1934), later known as the NKVD (1934–1946) and the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD) in the final years. 
The internment system grew rapidly, reaching a population of 100,000 in the 1920s. By the end of 1940, the population of the Gulag camps amounted to 1.5 million. The emergent consensus among scholars is that of the 14 million prisoners who passed through the Gulag camps and the 4 million prisoners who passed through the Gulag colonies from 1930 to 1953, roughly 1.5 to 1.7 million prisoners perished there or died soon after they were released. Some journalists and writers who question the reliability of such data heavily rely on memoir sources that come to higher estimations. Archival researchers have found "no plan of destruction" of the Gulag population and no statement of official intent to kill them, and prisoner releases vastly exceeded the number of deaths in the Gulag. This policy can partially be attributed to the common practice of releasing prisoners who were suffering from incurable diseases as well as prisoners who were near death.
Almost immediately after the death of Stalin, a mass general amnesty was granted to non-political prisoners and political prisoners who had been sentenced to a maximum of five years in prison. Shortly thereafter, Nikita Khrushchev was elected First Secretary, initiating the processes of de-Stalinization and the Khrushchev Thaw, triggering a mass release and rehabilitation of political prisoners. Six years later, on 25 January 1960, the Gulag system was officially abolished when the remains of its administration were dissolved by Khrushchev. The legal practice of sentencing convicts to penal labor continues to exist in the Russian Federation, but its capacity is greatly reduced.
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature, who survived eight years of Gulag incarceration, gave the term its international repute with the publication of The Gulag Archipelago in 1973. The author likened the scattered camps to "a chain of islands", and as an eyewitness, he described the Gulag as a system where people were worked to death. In March 1940, there were 53 Gulag camp directorates (simply referred to as "camps") and 423 labor colonies in the Soviet Union. Many mining and industrial towns and cities in northern Russia, eastern Russia and Kazakhstan—such as Karaganda, Norilsk, Vorkuta and Magadan—originated as blocks of camps built by prisoners and subsequently run by ex-prisoners.

Title: People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Mojahedin_Organization_of_Iran
Excerpt: The People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran (PMOI), also known as Mojahedin-e-Khalq (MEK) or Mojahedin-e-Khalq Organization (MKO; Persian: سازمان مجاهدین خلق ایران, romanised: Sâzmân-e Mojâhedin-e Khalgh-e Irân), is an Iranian dissident organisation. It was an armed group until 2003, afterwards switching focus into a political group. Its headquarters is currently in Albania. The group's ideology has been historically influenced by Islamic and revolutionary socialist philosophies, particularly through a re-interpretative approach to Shia Islam. After the Iranian Revolution, the MEK opposed the new theocratic Government of Iran, seeking to replace it with its own government. At one point the MEK was Iran's "largest and most active armed dissident group", and it is still sometimes presented by Western political backers as a major Iranian opposition group. The MEK is unpopular today within Iran, largely due to its siding with Iraq in the Iran–Iraq War and continued ties with the government of Saddam Hussein afterwards.
The MEK was founded in 1965 by leftist Iranian students affiliated with the Freedom Movement of Iran to oppose the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. The organisation contributed to overthrowing the Shah during the 1979 Iranian Revolution. It subsequently pursued the establishment of a democracy in Iran, particularly gaining support from Iran's middle class intelligentsia. The MEK boycotted the 1979 constitutional referendum, which led to Khomeini barring MEK leader Massoud Rajavi from the 1980 presidential election. The MEK organised the 20 June 1981 Iranian protests against Khomeini and the ousting of President Abolhassan Banisadr. The protests were violently suppressed by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, which shot into the crowds, killing 50, before executing 23 further protesters who had been arrested, including teenage girls. On 28 June, the MEK was implicated in the blowing up of the headquarters of the Islamic Republican Party (IRP) in the Haft-e Tir bombing, killing 74 officials and party members. A wave of killings and executions led by Khomeini's government followed, part of the 1981–1982 Iran massacres.
Rajavi fled to Paris and during the exile, the underground network that remained in Iran continued to plan and carry out attacks. It allegedly conducted the August 1981 bombing that killed Iran's president and prime minister. In 1983, the MEK began meeting with Iraqi officials. In 1986, France expelled the MEK at the request of Iran, forcing it to relocate to Camp Ashraf in Iraq. In 1987, it founded the "National Liberation Army of Iran" (NLA), with the sole objective of "toppling the Islamic Republic through military force from outside the country". During the Iran–Iraq War, the MEK then sided with Iraq, taking part in Operation Forty Stars, and Operation Mersad. Following Operation Mersad, Iranian officials ordered the mass execution of prisoners said to support the MEK. The group gained significant publicity in 2002 by announcing the existence of Iranian nuclear facilities. In 2003, the MEK's military wing signed a ceasefire agreement with the U.S. and was disarmed at Camp Ashraf.
Between 1997 and 2013, the MEK was on the lists of terrorist organisations of the US, Canada, EU, UK and Japan for various periods. The MEK is designated as a terrorist organisation by Iran. Critics have described the group as exhibiting traits of a "personality cult", while its backers describe the group as proponents of "a free and democratic Iran" that could become the next government there.

Title: Hellenic Police
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hellenic_Police
Excerpt: The Hellenic Police (Greek: Ελληνική Αστυνομία, romanized: Ellinikí Astynomía, abbreviated ΕΛ.ΑΣ.) is the national police service and one of the three security forces of Greece (the others being the Hellenic Fire Service and the Hellenic Coast Guard). It is a large agency with responsibilities ranging from road traffic control to counter-terrorism. Police Lieutenant General Dimitrios Mallios is Chief of the Hellenic Police. He replaced Lazaros Mavropoulos in January 2024. The Hellenic Police force was established in 1984 under Law 1481/1-10-1984 (Government Gazette 152/A/8-10-1984) as the result of the merger of the Gendarmerie (Χωροφυλακή, Chorofylakí, 1833–1984) and the Cities Police (Αστυνομία Πόλεων, Astynomía Póleon, 1921–1984) forces.
According to Law 7187/2025 which reorganized, upgraded and modernized the Hellenic Police's structure, mission and modus operandi, replacing the previous Law 2800/2000, the Hellenic Police is a security force whose primary missions are:

the Protection of the State, including
The Protection of the Democratic Regime and the State Institutions
The Neutralization of Threats which Risk the State's Security
The Protection of State Officials, Local and Foreign, who are Located in the Country
The Inspection of Compliance with Laws regarding Weapons and Explosive Devices
The Tackling of Terrorism and Extremist Violence
Public Security, including
The Prosecution of Crimes Against Life & Personal Freedom and Property Crimes
The Prosecution of Cybercrime
The Prosecution of Narcotics Trafficking
The Prosecution of Illegal Trade and Antiquities Smuggling
The Prosecution of Human Trafficking
The Prosecution of Financial Crime
The Prosecution of Domestic and Transborder Organized Crime
The Search for Missing Persons, as well as for Lost and Stolen Items
The Search and Arrest of Prosecuted Persons
General and Traffic Policing, including
The Assurance of Social Peace and Citizen Protection
The Maintenance of Order in Public Spaces and Public Gatherings and the Protection of the Personal and Collective Rights of Citizens during said Conditions
The Inspection of the Lawful Operation of Stores
The Transport of Prisoners from Detention Facilities to the Courts of Law
The Inspection of Compliance with Tourist Laws
The Regulation of Traffic in Public Spaces
The Enforcement of Traffic Laws and Regulations
The Investigation of Traffic Accidents
Community Policing, including
The Protection of Human Rights and the Fundamental Freedoms secured by the Constitution
The Protection of Family Integrity and the Tackling of Domestic Violence
The Tackling of Gender-Based Violence
The Tackling of Hate Crimes, specifically the Prosecution of Offences against Persons or Groups due to their race, skin color, ethnic descent, religion, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity or characteristics
The Protection of Underage or other Vulnerable Individuals
Foreigners Policing and Border Protection, including
The Prevention, Deterrence and Suppression of Illegal Entry and Exit of Foreign Citizens to the Country, as well as their Illegal Employment
The Tracking and Arrest of Foreign Citizens who Enter, Exit, Reside and Work Illegally in the Country and their Referral to the Judicial Authorities or their Repatriation, as well as the Tracking and Arrest of Persons who Illegally Traffic or Facilitate the Illegal Entry, Exit and Employment of the Foreign Persons and their Referral to the Judicial Authorities
The Detention of Foreigners who have Illegally Entered or Reside in the Country in Specific Detention Facilities
The Hellenic Police is constituted along central and regional lines. The force takes direction from the Minister for Citizen Protection.

Title: Xenophobia and racism related to the COVID-19 pandemic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xenophobia_and_racism_related_to_the_COVID-19_pandemic
Excerpt: The COVID-19 pandemic was first reported in the city of Wuhan, Hubei, China, in December 2019. The origins of the virus have subsequently led to an increase in acts and displays of sinophobia, as well as prejudice, xenophobia, discrimination, violence, and racism against people of East Asian and Southeast Asian descent and appearance around the world. With the spread of the pandemic and formation of hotspots, such as those in Asia, Europe, and the Americas, discrimination against people from these hotspots has been reported.
The pandemic saw a rise in antisemitism. Several reports documented conspiracy theories blaming Jews for "engineering and profiting from the COVID-19 pandemic". Hate groups falsely labeled Jews as "being a main vector of the virus".

Title: Immigration policy of the second Trump administration
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immigration_policy_of_the_second_Trump_administration
Excerpt: Donald Trump was inaugurated for his second term as President of the United States on January 20, 2025, with one of his key campaign promises being to crack down on immigration. That evening, Trump signed several executive orders related to immigration, including declaring a national emergency at the Mexico–United States border, blocking asylum seekers from entering the U.S., expanding the detention of apprehended migrants pending removal proceedings, ending birthright citizenship for new children born to parents who are not U.S. permanent residents, suspending almost all refugee admissions to the U.S., and officially designating certain international cartels and criminal organizations as terrorists. Trump signed the Laken Riley Act on January 29, 2025, which mandates the detention of immigrants who are arrested, charged with, or convicted of certain crimes.
Border encounters between migrants and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) continued to decline since Trump took office in 2025; refugee admissions have also plummeted. The administration has also expanded its immigration detention and deportation operations. The overall strategy of the Trump administration, and the often maximalist tactics employed, primarily by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, have received widespread criticism, and protests have erupted across the country in response.
In 2025, Congress passed and President Donald Trump signed the One Big Beautiful Bill Act which appropriated $170 billion to immigration enforcement through 2029. In 2026, Congress passed and President Trump signed the Secure America Act which appropriated, through 2029, an additional $69.5 billion dollars.