Title: Matt Stone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matt_Stone
Excerpt: Matthew Richard Stone (born May 26, 1971) is an American actor, animator, writer, producer and songwriter. He studied film and  mathematics at the University of Colorado Boulder, where he met his creative partner Trey Parker. As students, they made the independent film Cannibal! The Musical (1993). They found fame with the animated satire South Park (since 1997) and the film South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut (1999). Their satirical action film Team America: World Police (2004) stars a cast of marionettes. With Robert Lopez, they co-created the musical The Book of Mormon (2011).  
Stone is the recipient of numerous accolades, including five Primetime Emmy Awards and a  Peabody for South Park and three Tony Awards and a Grammy Award for The Book of Mormon. In 2026, he was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame.

Title: Trey Parker
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trey_Parker
Excerpt: Randolph Severn "Trey" Parker III (born October 19, 1969) is an American actor, animator, writer, producer, director and songwriter. He studied  film and  Japanese at the University of Colorado Boulder, where he met his creative partner Matt Stone. As students, they made the independent film Cannibal! The Musical (1993). They found fame with the animated satire South Park (since 1997) and the feature South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut (1999). Their satirical action film Team America: World Police (2004) stars a cast of marionettes. With Robert Lopez, they cowrote the musical  The Book of Mormon, which premiered on Broadway to positive reviews. 
Parker has received five Primetime Emmy Awards and a  Peabody for South Park, four Tony Awards and a Grammy Award for The Book of Mormon and an Academy Award nomination for the song "Blame Canada" from South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut, co-written with Marc Shaiman. In 2026, he was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame.

Title: Chef (South Park)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chef_(South_Park)
Excerpt: Jerome "Chef" McElroy, often referred to as just Chef, is a fictional character on the Comedy Central series South Park who was voiced by Isaac Hayes. A cafeteria worker at the local elementary school in the town of South Park, Colorado, Chef is generally portrayed as more intelligent than the other adult residents of the town, and understanding to the children. His advice is often sought by the show's core group of child protagonists —Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski, Eric Cartman, and Kenny McCormick — as he is the only adult they completely trust. He frequently gives completely honest advice without considering whether it is appropriate for children, usually in the non sequitur form of a lascivious soul song.
Chef was inspired by Hayes and other popular soul singers of the 1970s, as well as an actual dining hall worker encountered by series co-creator Trey Parker while he attended the University of Colorado. Chef played a less prominent role as the series progressed beyond its earlier seasons, and the character was retired at the beginning of the tenth season in "The Return of Chef" following the controversial departure of Hayes.

Title: Gerald and Sheila Broflovski
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerald_and_Sheila_Broflovski
Excerpt: Gerald Broflovski and Sheila Broflovski are fictional characters in the animated television series South Park. The two are an Ashkenazi Jewish couple who raise their ten-year-old son Kyle and three-year-old Canadian-born adopted son Ike in the fictional town of South Park, Colorado.
In tradition with the show's animation style, they are both composed of simple geometrical shapes, and are animated with use of a computer, though they are given the impression of being construction paper cutout compositions animated through the use of stop motion, which was the technique used to animate the "Spirit of Christmas" shorts and the show's first episode. Gerald is voiced by series co-creator Matt Stone and Sheila was originally voiced by Mary Kay Bergman and is currently voiced by Mona Marshall. Their first names are derived from those of Stone's parents, Gerald and Sheila Stone. However, unlike his mother, Stone's father is not Jewish, and Gerald Broflovski was not largely based on him.

Title: List of South Park characters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_South_Park_characters
Excerpt: South Park is an American adult animated television sitcom created by Trey Parker and Matt Stone for the Comedy Central television network. The ongoing narrative revolves around four boys, Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski, Kenny McCormick, and Eric Cartman and their bizarre adventures in and around the fictional Colorado town of South Park.  The town is also home to an assortment of characters who make frequent appearances in the show, such as students and their family members, elementary school staff, and recurring characters.
Stan Marsh is portrayed as the everyman of the group, as the show's official website describes him as "a normal, average, American, mixed-up kid." Kyle is the lone Jew among the group, and his portrayal in this role is often dealt with satirically. Stan and Kyle are best friends, and their relationship, which is intended to reflect the real-life friendship between South Park creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone, is a common topic throughout the series. Cartman—loud, obnoxious, and obese—is sometimes portrayed as the series' antihero and his antisemitic attitude has resulted in an ever-progressing rivalry with Kyle. Kenny, who comes from a poor family, wears his parka hood so tightly that it covers most of his face and muffles his speech. During the show's first five seasons, Kenny died in almost every single episode before returning in the next without explanation.
Stone and Parker perform the voices of most of the male South Park characters. Mary Kay Bergman voiced the majority of the female characters until her death in 1999. Eliza Schneider (1999–2003), Mona Marshall (2000–present), April Stewart (2004–present), and Kimberly Brooks (2008–present) have voiced most of the female characters since. A few staff members such as Jennifer Howell, Vernon Chatman, John Hansen, and Adrien Beard have voiced other recurring characters.