Title: Jay-Z
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jay-Z
Excerpt: Shawn Corey Carter (born December 4, 1969), known professionally as Jay-Z, is an American rapper, businessman, and record executive. In 2023, Billboard and Vibe ranked him as the greatest rapper of all time. Rooted in East Coast hip-hop, Jay-Z is known for his complex lyricism that often uses double entendres, wordplay, and braggadocio—built on a rags to riches narrative. According to Forbes, he is the wealthiest music artist in history, worth an estimated US$2.8 billion as of 2026.
A protégé of fellow New York City-based rapper Jaz-O, Jay-Z began recording music in the late 1980s. He co-founded Roc-A-Fella Records in 1994 to release his first two studio albums, Reasonable Doubt (1996) and In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 (1997), both of which were critically acclaimed. His 11 subsequent albums, including The Blueprint (2001), The Black Album (2003), American Gangster (2007), and 4:44 (2017), have each debuted atop the Billboard 200. Jay-Z has a total of 14 number-one albums on the chart, the third-most in history. He topped the Billboard Hot 100 on four occasions: once as a lead artist with his 2009 single "Empire State of Mind" (with Alicia Keys), and three times with his guest performances on the singles "Heartbreaker" (1999) by Mariah Carey, "Crazy in Love" (2003) by Beyoncé, and "Umbrella" (2007) by Rihanna.
Jay-Z served as president and chief executive officer of Def Jam Recordings from 2004 to 2007, during which time he helped launch the careers of acts including Kanye West, Rihanna, and Ne-Yo. He co-founded Rocawear, a clothing retailer, in 1999, and founded the 40/40 Club, a luxury bar chain, in 2003. As both grew into multi-million-dollar businesses, he launched Roc Nation, a multi-disciplinary entertainment agency, in 2008. In 2015, he acquired the technology company Aspiro and led the expansion of its media streaming service Tidal. Through his business ventures, Jay-Z became the first hip-hop billionaire in 2019. After Block, Inc. (then Square, Inc.) acquired a majority stake in Tidal in March 2021, Jay-Z joined its board of directors.
One of the best-selling music artists with 125 million records sold, Jay-Z has won 25 Grammy Awards, the eighth-most of all time and the second-most of any hip-hop artist. He is the recipient of the NAACP's President's Award and three Emmy Awards (including two Primetime Emmy Awards), in addition to being nominated for a Tony Award. Jay-Z was the first rapper to be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame and the eighth hip-hop act to be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Time named him one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2013.

Title: List of songs recorded by Kanye West
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_songs_recorded_by_Kanye_West
Excerpt: This is a list of songs recorded by Kanye West, an American rapper, record producer, and songwriter. The list includes over 600 released songs on which West appears as a main artist or featured artist, as well as a selection of notable unreleased recordings. Songs are organized alphabetically and cover West's discography from his early work in the 2000s through his releases in the 2020s, including collaborations released under group names such as Kids See Ghosts and ¥$.

Title: Stoney (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stoney_(album)
Excerpt: Stoney is the debut studio album by the American musician Post Malone, released on December 9, 2016, by Republic Records. After rising to prominence with his debut single "White Iverson" in 2015, Malone signed to Republic and began working on his debut album. His debut mixtape, August 26th, was released in May 2016. It was titled after the original planned release date for Stoney, though it was subsequently delayed. The album features guest appearances from Justin Bieber, Kehlani, and Quavo. Production was handled by a variety of record producers, including Malone himself, Louis Bell, Frank Dukes, FKi 1st, Charlie Handsome, Illangelo, Metro Boomin, Mustard, Roofeeo, Leon Thomas III, Pharrell Williams, and Vinylz, among others.
Stoney is primarily a hip-hop album that contains influences from country, pop, and R&B. Its lyrics generally revolve around money, luxury, drugs, and women, and its instrumentals feature heavy bass and trap snares reminiscent of club music. Malone aimed to create a unique sound in hip-hop, as he found much of the music in the genre was cliché. He incorporated his guitar-playing and influences from rock music with the goal of making an innovative sound. The album was promoted by six singles, including the three US Diamond-certified songs "White Iverson", "Congratulations", and "I Fall Apart". The Stoney Tour took place across the United States throughout September and October 2017.
Stoney received mixed reviews, with critics enjoying the hooks presented but finding its songwriting generic. The album received several award nominations, including Top Billboard 200 Album at the 2018 Billboard Music Awards. The album debuted at number six on the Billboard 200 and later peaked at number four on the chart, and also topped the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. It eventually reached its 77th week in the top 10 of the latter chart, breaking a record set by Michael Jackson's Thriller (1982). It was certified five-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and double platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI).

Title: On the Street
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_the_Street
Excerpt: "On the Street" (stylized in lowercase) is a song by South Korean rapper J-Hope of BTS and American rapper J. Cole. It was released as a digital single through Big Hit Music on March 3, 2023. A lofi hip hop track, the song was written by J-Hope, Cole, and Pdogg, who also served as producer. Lyrically the song is an ode to J-Hope's artistic roots and the intersection of his love for street dance and hip hop. Cole's verse follows a similar theme, detailing his journey as an artist and the evolution of his craft. An accompanying music video shows J-Hope walking and dancing through the streets of New York City then in the Bowery subway station while Cole is seen standing and dancing on the rooftop of a city building.
Described as a "gift" to his fans, the single marked J-Hope's final music release before he began his mandatory military service in April 2023. A solo version of the song without Cole was released in March 2024, as part of J-Hope's first extended play Hope on the Street Vol. 1 (2024).

Title: Abracadabra (Lady Gaga song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abracadabra_(Lady_Gaga_song)
Excerpt: "Abracadabra" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Lady Gaga for her studio album, Mayhem (2025). It was written and produced by Gaga, Andrew Watt, and Cirkut, with additional songwriting credits to members of Siouxsie and the Banshees, as it incorporates elements from their 1981 single "Spellbound". Musically, it is a dance, dance-pop, electropop, synth-pop, and acid techno track with electronic, industrial, house, and psychedelic influences. The song's lyrics, according to Gaga, reflect on facing life's challenges and finding a sense of magic in them. "Abracadabra" was released through Interscope Records on February 3, 2025, as the album's second single.
An accompanying music video, co-directed by Gaga, Parris Goebel, and Bethany Vargas, depicts a dance battle between two contrasting personas of the singer and premiered on February 3, following a teaser which aired during a commercial break at the 67th Annual Grammy Awards. Critics praised its theatrical style and cinematography, drawing favorable comparisons to her earlier work. Gaga performed "Abracadabra" on Saturday Night Live, The Howard Stern Show, the MTV Video Music Awards 2025 and the 2026 Grammy Awards. She also sang it as part of the opening act for some concerts promoting Mayhem, including during the Mayhem Ball tour, and incorporated a remix of the track by French producer Gesaffelstein as a show interlude, which was released on digital platforms. Gaga also performed a reimagined version of the song for Mayhem Requiem.
"Abracadabra" received critical acclaim, with reviewers praising its production, rhythm, songwriting and chorus, and various critics ranked it among the best songs of 2025. Commercially, the song topped the charts in Hungary and Lithuania, while reaching the top ten in Austria, Brazil, Croatia, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and on the Billboard Global 200. "Abracadabra" also charted within the top twenty in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, France, New Zealand, the Philippines, Taiwan, the United Arab Emirates, and the United States. It also received diamond certifications in Brazil and France as well as platinum certifications in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, Greece, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, and the United Kingdom. At the 68th Annual Grammy Awards, "Abracadabra" was nominated for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, Best Dance Pop Recording, and—for its Gesaffelstein remix—Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical, winning the latter two.