Title: Mind Sports Organisation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mind_Sports_Organisation
Excerpt: The Mind Sports Organisation (MSO) is an association for promoting mind sports including Contract Bridge, Chess, Go, Mastermind, and Scrabble. Since 1997 it has annually organised in England a multi-sport competition, the Mind Sports Olympiad.
The MSO was founded in conjunction with the first Mind Sports Olympiad. Beside the main event, always in England and usually in London, it has supported similar events elsewhere, including Milan; South Korea, and Prague.

Title: Goodwill Games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goodwill_Games
Excerpt: The Goodwill Games were an international sports competition created by Ted Turner in reaction to the political troubles surrounding the Olympic Games of the 1980s. In 1979, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan caused the United States and other Western countries to boycott the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, an act reciprocated when the Soviet Union and other Eastern Bloc countries (with the exception of Romania) boycotted the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.
The idea came to Turner in 1984 during his visit to Moscow. He was disappointed with the boycott, evaluating it as a negative outcome for both sides in the conflict. The magnate also believed that it was an opportune moment to create alternative high-level competitions that could "steal" some of the success from the Olympics. The organization of the competition, which started in 1986, cost him more than $11 million.
Like the Olympics, the Goodwill Games were held every four years (with the exception of the final Games), and had a summer and winter component. However, unlike the Olympics, figure skating, ice hockey and short track speed skating were part of summer editions. The Summer Goodwill Games occurred five times, between 1986 and 2001, while the Winter Goodwill Games occurred only once, in 2000. They were cancelled by Time Warner, which had bought ownership of them in 1996, because of low television ratings after the 2001 Games in Brisbane.

Title: Mind sport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mind_sport
Excerpt: A mind sport is a game of skill in which the outcome is determined mainly by intellectual ability rather than physical effort. Mind sports usually require strategic thinking, concentration, memory, logic, pattern recognition, planning, and decision-making. They are often played in competitive settings with formal rules, rankings, governing bodies, and international championships.
The term became widely used in the late 20th century, especially after the creation of the Mind Sports Olympiad in 1997, Since then, mind sports have gained broader recognition through organizations such as the International Mind Sports Association (IMSA), which governs major international competitions in games such as chess, bridge, draughts, go, xiangqi.
Mind sports can include board games, card games, abstract strategy games, memory competitions, puzzle solving, and other activities in which mental performance is the primary factor. Chess and contract bridge are among the best known examples and are recognized by the International Olympic Committee as sports. Other activities commonly described as mind sports include go, draughts, poker, mahjong, shogi, xiangqi, renju, Scrabble, speedcubing, and memory sports.
Although mind sports generally involve less physical activity than traditional sports, many players and organizations argue that they should be treated similarly because of the high level of preparation, discipline, training, and competition involved. International tournaments in mind sports often attract participants from dozens of countries and can include world championships, continental championships, and multi-sport events.

Title: Global Association of International Sports Federations
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_Association_of_International_Sports_Federations
Excerpt: The Global Association of International Sports Federations (GAISF) was a nonprofit organisation of international sports federations. It changed its name to SportAccord from March 2009 to April 2017, when it reverted to its GAISF. It was an international sport organisation with 97 full members (international sports federations governing specific sports worldwide) and 20 associate members (organisations which conduct activities closely related to the international sports federations).
In November 2022, the members of the Global Association of International Sports Federations (GAISF) voted to dissolve the organisation.
The revised governance structure will see the Association of IOC Recognised International Sports Federations (ARISF) and the Alliance of Independent Recognised Members of Sport (AIMS) join the Association of Summer Olympic International Federations (ASOIF) and the Winter Olympic Federations (WOF) as the four main stakeholders of SportAccord.
Members of the GAISF approved the final steps in the liquidation of the organisation at an extraordinary general assembly held on 14 September 2023.

Title: Sport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sport
Excerpt: A sport is a physical activity or game, often competitive and organised, that maintains or improves physical ability and skills. Sport may provide enjoyment to participants and entertainment to spectators. The number of participants in a particular sport can vary from hundreds of people to a single individual.
Physical activity is associated with various aspects of health and longevity. Higher levels of physical activity are associated with a lower risk of all-cause mortality and mortality from cardiovascular disease, ischemic stroke, and heart failure. Physical activity is also associated with reductions in symptoms of depression, anxiety, and psychological distress. In particular, aerobic exercise, yoga, and multimodal exercise have been found to be effective in reducing symptoms of postpartum depression.
Sport competitions may use a team or single person format, and may be open, allowing a broad range of participants, or closed, restricting participation to specific groups or those invited. Competitions may allow a "tie" or "draw", in which there is no single winner; others provide tie-breaking methods to ensure there is only one winner. They also may be arranged in a tournament format, producing a champion. Many sports leagues make an annual champion by arranging games in a regular sports season, followed in some cases by playoffs.
Sport is generally recognised as system of activities based in physical athleticism or physical dexterity, with major competitions admitting only sports meeting this definition. Some organisations, such as the Council of Europe, preclude activities without any physical element from classification as sports. However, a number of competitive, but non-physical, activities claim recognition as mind sports. The International Olympic Committee who oversee the Olympic Games recognises both chess and bridge as sports. SportAccord, the international sports federation association, recognises five non-physical sports: chess, bridge, draughts, Go and xiangqi. However, they limit the number of mind games which can be admitted as sports. Sport is usually governed by a set of rules or customs, which serve to ensure fair competition. Winning can be determined by physical events such as scoring goals or crossing a line first. It can also be determined by judges who are scoring elements of the sporting performance, including objective or subjective measures such as technical performance or artistic impression.
Records of performance are often kept, and for popular sports, this information may be widely announced or reported in sport news. Sport is also a major source of entertainment for non-participants, with spectator sport drawing large crowds to sport venues, and reaching wider audiences through broadcasting. Sport betting is in some cases severely regulated, and in others integral to the sport.
According to A.T. Kearney, a consultancy, the global sporting industry is worth up to $620 billion as of 2013. The world's most accessible and practised sport is running, while association football is the most popular spectator sport.