Title: Captain America
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Captain_America
Excerpt: Captain America is a superhero created by Joe Simon and Jack Kirby who appears in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character first appeared in Captain America Comics #1, published on December 20, 1940, by Timely Publications, a corporate predecessor to Marvel. Captain America's civilian identity is Steven "Steve" Rogers, a frail man rejected by the United States Army for physical unfitness who is enhanced to the peak of human physical perfection by an experimental "super-soldier serum". Equipped with an American flag–inspired costume and a virtually indestructible shield, Captain America and his sidekick Bucky Barnes clashed frequently with the villainous Red Skull and other agents of the Axis powers amid World War II. In the war's final days, an accident left Captain America frozen in a state of suspended animation until he was revived in modern times. He resumes his exploits as a costumed hero and becomes a leader of the superhero team the Avengers, while frequently struggling as a "man out of time" to adjust to the new era.
The character quickly emerged as Timely's most popular and commercially successful creation of the Golden Age of Comic Books, though the popularity of superheroes declined in the post-war period and Captain America Comics was discontinued in 1950. The character saw a short-lived revival in 1953 before returning to comics in 1964 and has since remained in continuous publication. Captain America's creation as an explicitly anti-Nazi figure was a deliberately political undertaking, inspired by Simon and Kirby's strong opposition to Nazi Germany and its supporters in the United States. Political messages have subsequently remained a defining feature of Captain America stories, with writers regularly using the character to comment on the state of American society and government.
Having appeared in more than ten thousand stories, Captain America is one of the most popular and recognized Marvel Comics characters, and has been described as an icon of American popular culture. Though Captain America was not the first United States–themed superhero, he would become the most popular and enduring of the many patriotic American superheroes created during World War II. Captain America was the first Marvel character to appear in a medium outside of comic books, in the 1944 movie serial Captain America; the character has subsequently appeared in a variety of films and other media, including the Marvel Cinematic Universe, where he is portrayed by actor Chris Evans.

Title: Jean Grey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean_Grey
Excerpt: Jean Grey is a superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, usually those featuring the X-Men, a group of superheroes of which she is a founding member. Created by writer Stan Lee and artist/co-plotter Jack Kirby, the character first appeared in The X-Men #1 (September 1963). Jean Grey is a member of a subspecies of humans known as mutants—individuals born with superhuman abilities—with Jean possessing psionic powers. Initially capable of using only telekinesis, she later develops the power of telepathy. During her early stint with the X-Men, she used the codename Marvel Girl.
Jean is a caring, nurturing figure, but she also has to deal with being an Omega-level mutant and the physical manifestation of the cosmic entity known as the Phoenix Force. Jean first experienced a transformation into Phoenix in the X-Men storyline "The Dark Phoenix Saga". Due to Mastermind's manipulations, Jean's psyche was twisted and she became Dark Phoenix during "The Dark Phoenix Saga", before sacrificing herself to prevent any further chaos. After her presumed death, Jean would return and resume her relationship with Cyclops, whom she married. Following her return, Jean fostered relationships with Rachel Summers, her daughter from an alternate future, and Cable, the son of Cyclops and Jean's clone Madelyne Pryor.
After Jean died a second time, Beast brought a younger time-displaced version of Jean into the present, alongside the rest of her original teammates. Eventually, Jean would be resurrected by the Phoenix Force once more, choosing to part ways with it and live her own life separately from it. Following her return, Jean briefly assumed leadership of the X-Men's Red Team, until the "Krakoan Age". Resuming her relationship with Cyclops following his resurrection, Jean would reconnect with the Phoenix Force, and choose to leave the X-Men to travel in space. However, she assures Cyclops that she will not be in space forever, and returns to Earth to fight alongside the X-Men again.
Jean's exact relationship to the Phoenix Force has often been changed throughout the character's history, as has her involvement in the events of "The Dark Phoenix Saga". Usually depicted as the Phoenix Force's favorite and most compatible host, storylines in 2024 revealed that Jean is actually the human manifestation of the Phoenix Force and its mother. Her connection to the Phoenix Force has often resulted in clashes with the Shi'ar empire, responsible for the massacre of most of her family members.
Often listed as one of the most notable and powerful female characters in Marvel Comics, the character has been featured in various Marvel-licensed products, including video games, animated television series, and merchandise. In film, the character has been portrayed by Famke Janssen and Sophie Turner in 20th Century Fox's X-Men film series (2000–2019), and Sadie Sink in the Marvel Cinematic Universe beginning in 2026. The character also appears as one of the lead characters in X-Men: The Animated Series (1992–1997), voiced by Catherine Disher, and subsequently appears in the revival X-Men '97 (2024–present), voiced by Jennifer Hale.

Title: Magneto (Marvel Comics)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magneto_(Marvel_Comics)
Excerpt: Magneto () is a character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, commonly in association with the X-Men. Created by writer Stan Lee and artist/co-writer Jack Kirby, the character first appeared in The X-Men #1 (cover-dated September 1963) as an adversary of the X-Men.
Magneto is a powerful mutant, one of a fictional subspecies of humanity born with superhuman abilities, who has the ability to generate and control magnetic fields.
Writers have since fleshed out his origins and motivations, revealing him to be a Holocaust survivor (birth name: Max Eisenhardt; alias: Erik Lehnsherr German pronunciation: [ˈeːʁɪk ˈleːnshɛʁ] and Magnus). His extreme methods and cynical philosophy derive from his "never again" determination to protect mutants from suffering the same fate as the Jews at the hands of a world that fears and persecutes them. He was once a friend of Professor X, the leader of the X-Men, but their differing philosophies caused a rift in their friendship. Magneto's role in comics has progressed from supervillain to antihero to superhero, having served as an occasional ally of the X-Men, even leading the New Mutants for a time as headmaster of the Xavier School for Gifted Youngsters, and eventually a fully fledged member of the X-Men. Writer Chris Claremont, who created Magneto's backstory, compared the character to then-Israeli opposition leader Menachem Begin, with later commentators comparing the character with the American civil rights leader Malcolm X and Jewish Defense League founder Meir Kahane.
Magneto appears in X-Men: The Animated Series (1992–1997), voiced by David Hemblen, and its revival X-Men '97 (2024–present), voiced by Matthew Waterson. Ian McKellen and Michael Fassbender have portrayed Magneto in 20th Century Fox's X-Men film series (2000–2019), with McKellen set to reprise the role in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Avengers: Doomsday (2026).

Title: Thor (Marvel Comics)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thor_(Marvel_Comics)
Excerpt: Thor Odinson is a superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, based on the Germanic god of the same name. Created by artist Jack Kirby, writer Stan Lee, and scripter Larry Lieber, the character first appeared in Journey into Mystery #83 (1962) and first received his own title with Thor #126 (1966). Comic books featuring Thor have been published across several volumes.
Thor is one of the gods of Asgard and the son of the Asgardian king Odin. In addition to his Asgardian strength and extended lifespan, Thor wields control over the weather, including rain and lightning. He also carries the enchanted hammer Mjolnir, that enhances his abilities and grants him the ability to fly. Thor was first introduced as the alter ego of surgeon Donald Blake, who acquired Thor's power, which was later revealed to be a fabrication by Thor's father. Thor has since assumed other human identities and sometimes ruled as king of Asgard.
Thor's cast of supporting characters includes his fellow Asgardians Odin, Sif, The Warriors Three, and Balder the Brave, as well as other allies such as Jane Foster, Beta Ray Bill, and Hercules. Thor's arch-nemesis is his adoptive brother Loki. Thor is a founding member of the superhero team the Avengers, and has played a significant role in Marvel crossover storylines, including "Avengers Disassembled" (2004), Siege (2010), "Fear Itself" (2011) and "The War of the Realms" (2019). 
Eric Allan Kramer played Thor in the film The Incredible Hulk Returns (1988), while Chris Hemsworth portrays the cinematic adaptation of Thor in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, first appearing in Thor (2011).