Title: True Stories (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/True_Stories_(film)
Excerpt: True Stories (full onscreen title: True Stories: A Film About a Bunch of People in Virgil Texas.) is a 1986 American satirical musical comedy film co-written and directed by David Byrne, who stars alongside John Goodman, Swoosie Kurtz, and Spalding Gray. The majority of the film's music is supplied by rock band Talking Heads. A soundtrack album, titled Sounds from True Stories, featured songs by Byrne, Talking Heads, Terry Allen & the Panhandle Mystery Band, and others. Around the same time, Talking Heads released an album titled True Stories, composed of studio recordings of songs featured in the film.
True Stories was released by Warner Bros. Pictures in the United States, Canada, Italy, and Sweden in 1986, and received a limited release elsewhere the following year. Byrne was given much creative control over the motion picture's direction, largely due to the mainstream success of Talking Heads' 1984 concert film Stop Making Sense. The resulting film is replete with Byrne's eccentric and idiosyncratic observations of small-town life, exaggerated satirical imagery, and surrealist sense of humor.

Title: Bedtime Stories (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bedtime_Stories_(album)
Excerpt: Bedtime Stories is the sixth studio album by American singer and songwriter Madonna. It was released on October 24, 1994, by Maverick and Sire Records. In 1992, Madonna released her fifth studio album Erotica, the coffee table book Sex, and starred in the erotic thriller Body of Evidence. All three projects were criticized for their sexually explicit nature; critics felt Madonna had "gone too far" and that her career was over. She decided that she needed to soften her image if she wanted to regain her audience. The first attempt was the hit ballad "I'll Remember" from the soundtrack to the 1994 film With Honors. 
For Bedtime Stories, Madonna decided to incorporate R&B elements, and collaborated with Babyface, Dallas Austin, and Dave Hall. She also chose to explore the British club musical scene, where genres such as trip hop had been growing in popularity, and hired producer Nellee Hooper. This resulted in a pop and R&B record with elements of hip hop. Its themes include love and romance, but with a toned-down, less sexual approach. In the song "Human Nature", Madonna addresses the backlash and controversy surrounding her previous projects, while "Bedtime Story" was a collaboration with Icelandic singer Björk. 
To promote Bedtime Stories, Madonna performed at the 1995 American Music and Brit Awards. A concert tour was canceled when Madonna was cast as Eva Perón in the 1996 musical film Evita. The album debuted and peaked at number three on the US Billboard 200 and was certified triple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). It reached number one in Australia, and charted within the top five in many other countries, including Canada, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom. The album yielded two Hot 100 top-three singles, "Secret" and "Take a Bow"; the latter spent seven weeks at number one on the chart. Follow-ups "Bedtime Story" and "Human Nature" reached the top ten of the UK singles chart.
Critics reacted positively to the album for moving away from Erotica's explicit content toward a smoother, more subtly seductive approach. Bedtime Stories was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 38th Grammy Awards. Retrospectively, it has been referred to as one of Madonna's most important yet underrated albums. Its influence has been noted in the work of contemporary artists. Worldwide, Bedtime Stories has sold an estimated eight million copies. In 2025, Madonna released a companion extended play subtitled The Untold Chapter, containing songs that did not make the final cut along with reissues of songs from the original studio album to commemorate Bedtime Stories's 30th anniversary.

Title: Avicii
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avicii
Excerpt: Tim Bergling (8 September 1989 – 20 April 2018), known professionally as Avicii, was a Swedish DJ, remixer, and record producer. His music consisted primarily of pop-oriented house music, often blended with other genres such as folk, country, bluegrass, soul, and blues. He is considered one of the most popular and successful electronic dance music (EDM) artists of all time and is credited with "leading EDM into the mainstream".
Avicii began posting remixes on Internet forums when he was 16, and in May 2007, he was signed to the Dejfitts Plays record label. After winning a BBC Radio 1 competition in 2008, he signed a talent management agreement with Arash Pournouri. "Levels" (2011) was his first entry on the Billboard Hot 100. His debut studio album, True (2013) peaked in the top 10 in more than 15 countries and topped international charts. The lead single, "Wake Me Up", became a most-streamed song on Spotify. Both his album Stories (2015) and the extended play (EP) Avīci (01) (2017) reached number one on the Swedish Sverigetopplistan chart. His third and final album, Tim (2019), was released posthumously and reached number one on the Billboard Top Dance Albums chart.
Avicii, a self-described shy person, suffered from anxiety and depression and used alcohol as a coping mechanism. In 2012, Avicii was hospitalized for 11 days in New York City with acute pancreatitis caused by alcoholism. Between 2012 and 2014, to treat pain from the pancreatitis, Avicii was prescribed opioids such as OxyContin and Vicodin, to which he developed an addiction. He ignored the advice of doctors, leading to a ruptured appendix and, in March 2014, he underwent surgery to remove his appendix and gallbladder. He entered a drug rehabilitation facility in 2015 after his closest friends and family organized an intervention in Ibiza. Due to these health issues, Avicii announced his retirement from touring in March 2016. He experienced significant anxiety over the possibility of disappointing his fans and in 2018, while on vacation in Muscat, Oman, Avicii committed suicide at the age of 28, using a broken wine bottle to cause "massive bleeding".
Avicii's accolades included four MTV Europe Music Awards, two International Dance Music Awards, one American Music Award, and one Billboard Music Award. He was nominated for a Grammy for his work on "Sunshine" with David Guetta in 2012 and "Levels" in 2013. His nightly fees were estimated at $250,000 or higher.

Title: Based on a True Story...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Based_on_a_True_Story...
Excerpt: Based on a True Story... is the eighth studio album by American country music artist Blake Shelton. It was released on March 26, 2013, through Warner Bros. Records, and debuted at #3 on the Billboard 200. In a career best for Shelton at the time, nearly 200,000 copies of the album were sold in its first week. Based on a True Story... became the ninth best-selling album of 2013 in the US, earning Shelton a Platinum certification by the RIAA on September 30, 2013. In 2016, Based on a True Story… was certified double-platinum by the RIAA.
Five singles were released from Based on a True Story... The lead single, "Sure Be Cool If You Did", peaked at #1 on Billboard's Hot Country Songs chart, while the subsequent two singles, "Boys 'Round Here" and "Mine Would Be You", peaked at #2 on that chart. The final two singles, "Doin' What She Likes", and "My Eyes", peaked at #3 and #4 respectively on that chart. All five singles peaked at #1 on the Billboard's Country Airplay chart.
Based on a True Story... received mixed reviews from critics. Shelton's vocals on the album were praised, and some of the songs were well-received for highlighting Shelton's personality, but several critics considered the album's lyrical content formulaic. The album earned Shelton his second Grammy Award nomination for Best Country Album. The song "Mine Would Be You" earned Shelton his third Grammy Award nomination for Best Country Solo Performance.

Title: The Incredible True Story
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Incredible_True_Story
Excerpt: The Incredible True Story is the second studio album by American rapper Logic. It was released on November 13, 2015, by Visionary Music Group and Def Jam Recordings. The album features production by Logic, executive producer 6ix, Stefan Ponce, Sir Dylan, Syk Sense, Oz, and DJ Dahi. The album also features guest appearances from Big Lenbo, Lucy Rose, Dria, and Jesse Boykins III.
The Incredible True Story was supported by three singles: "Young Jesus", "Like Woah", and "Fade Away". The album received positive reviews from music critics and was a commercial success. It debuted at number three on the US Billboard 200, earning 135,000 album-equivalent units in its first week. It also reached number one on the US Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. The album was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in June 2021.