Title: Billy Boyd
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Billy_Boyd
Excerpt: William Nathan Boyd (born 28 August 1968) is a Scottish actor and musician. He played Peregrin "Pippin" Took in Peter Jackson's epic film trilogy The Lord of the Rings (2001–2003), Barret Bonden in Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World (2003) and Glen and Glenda (later G.G. Valentine) in the Child's Play film Seed of Chucky (2004) and second season of the television series Chucky (2022).

Title: William Boyd
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Boyd
Excerpt: William, Willie, Will or Bill Boyd may refer to:

Title: William Boyd (writer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Boyd_(writer)
Excerpt: William Andrew Murray Boyd  (born 7 March 1952) is a Scottish novelist, short story writer, screenwriter, and film director. He is best known for his novels, which include  A Good Man in Africa (1981), Any Human Heart (2002), and  Restless (2006), many of which have received critical acclaim and literary awards. Boyd has also written screenplays for film and television, including Chaplin (1992), and directed the World War I drama  The Trench (1999). 
His work is characterised by its narrative vitality and range, earning him numerous accolades including the Whitbread First Novel Award, the James Tait Black Memorial Prize, and the Costa Book Award. A number of his works are what he describes as "whole-life" novels which follow a protagonist through the highs and lows of a varied and often remarkable life. He regularly fuses fact with fiction and his lead characters encounter well-known historical figures. He was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2005 for services to literature. John Self, writing for The Booker Prizes, described Boyd’s work as “vigorous, entertaining novels” produced by an “exceptionally fertile imagination,” and praised his fiction as “fully committed to his stories and characters.”

Title: William Boyd Dawkins
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Boyd_Dawkins
Excerpt: Sir William Boyd Dawkins   (26 December 1837 – 15 January 1929) was a British geologist and archaeologist. He was a member of the Geological Survey of Great Britain, Curator of the Manchester Museum and Professor of Geology at Owens College, Manchester. He is noted for his research on fossils and the antiquity of man. He was involved in many projects including a tunnel under the Humber, a Channel Tunnel attempt and the proving of coal under Kent.

Title: The Romantic (Boyd novel)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Romantic_(Boyd_novel)
Excerpt: The Romantic is the seventeenth novel by British author William Boyd, published in 2022, by Viking Penguin. The book is another of Boyd's 'whole-life' fictional biographies. It follows the story of Cashel Greville Ross, an Irishman born in 1799, whose life traverses significant events and locales of the 19th century. Boyd employs a first-person narrative to chronicle Cashel's diverse roles and adventures, creating a narrative that intertwines fact and fiction.
The book is dedicated to Boyd's wife, Susan.