Title: Futurama
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Futurama
Excerpt: Futurama is an American animated science fiction sitcom created by Matt Groening and developed by Groening and David X. Cohen for the Fox Broadcasting Company, and later revived by Comedy Central and then Hulu. The series follows Philip J. Fry, a young man who is cryogenically preserved for 1,000 years and revived on December 31, 2999. Fry finds work at the interplanetary delivery company Planet Express, working alongside the one-eyed mutant Leela and the robot Bender. The series was envisioned by Groening in the mid-1990s while working on The Simpsons; he brought Cohen, a Simpsons writer, aboard to develop storylines and characters to pitch the show to Fox.
Following its initial cancellation by Fox, Futurama began airing reruns on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim programming block, which lasted from 2003 to 2007. It was revived in 2007 as four direct-to-video films, the last of which was released in early 2009. Comedy Central entered into an agreement with 20th Century Fox Television to syndicate the existing episodes and air the films as 16 new, half-hour episodes, constituting a fifth production season, or the sixth to be broadcast (2008–2009).
In June 2009, Comedy Central picked up the series for 26 new half-hour episodes, which aired in 2010 and 2011, constituting the sixth production season, or the seventh (2010) and eighth (2011) to be broadcast. The show was renewed for a seventh production season, airing as the ninth (2012) and tenth (2013) broadcast seasons. On February 9, 2022, Hulu revived the series with a twenty-episode order, which was released as two separate production and broadcast seasons. In November 2023, the series was renewed by Hulu for a further twenty episodes, taking the series through to an eleventh production (fourteenth broadcast) season. Futurama resumed airing new episodes on August 3, 2026. Three further extended-length specials are set to be released in 2027.
Futurama has received critical acclaim throughout its run and was nominated for 17 Annie Awards, winning nine of them, and 12 Emmy Awards, winning six. It was nominated four times for a Writers Guild of America Award, winning for the episodes "Godfellas" and "The Prisoner of Benda". It was nominated for a Nebula Award and received Environmental Media Awards for the episodes "The Problem with Popplers" and "The Futurama Holiday Spectacular". Merchandise includes a tie-in comic book series, video games, calendars, clothes, and action figures. In 2013, TV Guide ranked Futurama on its list of the "60 Greatest TV Cartoons of All Time".

Title: Entourage (American TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entourage_(American_TV_series)
Excerpt: Entourage is an American satirical comedy-drama television series that premiered on HBO on July 18, 2004, and ended on September 11, 2011, after eight seasons. The series was created and largely written by Doug Ellin, and chronicles the acting career of Vincent Chase, a young A-list movie star, and his childhood friends from Queens, New York City, as they attempt to further their nascent careers in Los Angeles. The show's principal cast initially consisted of Kevin Connolly as Eric Murphy, Adrian Grenier as Vincent Chase, Kevin Dillon as Johnny "Drama" Chase, Jerry Ferrara as Turtle, and Jeremy Piven as Ari Gold. In later seasons, Debi Mazar, Perrey Reeves, Rex Lee, Rhys Coiro, Gary Cole, Emmanuelle Chriqui, and Scott Caan were upgraded to the main cast.
Mark Wahlberg and Stephen Levinson served as Entourage's executive producers, and its premise is loosely based on Wahlberg's experiences as an up-and-coming film star. The show is noted for its themes of male friendship and the Hollywood lifestyle, as well as its numerous celebrity guest appearances, with at least one usually appearing each episode.
During its run, Entourage received generally positive reviews from critics, apart from the last season receiving a mixed reception. The show received numerous awards and nominations throughout its run, including three straight Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series wins for Piven from 2006 to 2008, alongside the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor – Series, Miniseries or Television Film in 2007. Dillon and Connolly also received acting nominations.
An Entourage film, with most of the main cast returning, was released on June 3, 2015, serving as a sequel to the series. The film received negative reviews from critics and was a box office disappointment.

Title: Lost (TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lost_(TV_series)
Excerpt: Lost is an American science fiction adventure drama television series created by Jeffrey Lieber, J. J. Abrams, and Damon Lindelof that aired on ABC from September 22, 2004, to May 23, 2010, with a total of 121 episodes over six seasons. It contains elements of supernatural fiction and follows the survivors of Oceanic Airlines flight 815 (flying between Sydney and Los Angeles) after the plane crashes on a mysterious island somewhere in the South Pacific Ocean. Episodes typically feature a primary storyline set on the island, augmented by flashback or flashforward sequences which provide additional insight into the involved characters.
Lindelof and Carlton Cuse served as showrunners and were executive producers along with Abrams and Bryan Burk. Inspired by the 2000 film Cast Away, the show is told in a heavily serialized manner. Due to its large ensemble cast and the cost of filming primarily on location in Oahu, Hawaii, the series was one of the most expensive on television, with the pilot alone costing over $14 million. The fictional universe and mythology of Lost were expanded upon by a number of related media—most importantly a series of mini-episodes, called Missing Pieces, and a 12-minute epilogue called "The New Man in Charge".
Lost has regularly been ranked by critics as one of the greatest television series of all time. The first season had an estimated average of 16 million viewers per episode on ABC. During the sixth and final season, the show averaged over 11 million U.S. viewers per episode. Nevertheless, the series finale received a strongly polarized reaction from both fans and TV critics alike. Lost was the recipient of hundreds of industry award nominations throughout its run and won numerous of these awards, including the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series in 2005, Best American Import at the British Academy Television Awards in 2005, the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series – Drama in 2006, and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series.

Title: The Americans
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Americans
Excerpt: The Americans is an American period spy drama television series created by Joe Weisberg for FX. It aired for six seasons from January 30, 2013, to May 30, 2018. Weisberg and Joel Fields also served as showrunners and executive producers. Set during the Cold War, the show follows Elizabeth (Keri Russell) and Philip Jennings (Matthew Rhys), two Soviet KGB intelligence officers posing as an American married couple living in Falls Church, a Virginia suburb of Washington, D.C. The couple combine their spying duties with raising their American-born children Paige (Holly Taylor) and Henry (Keidrich Sellati).
The Americans also explores the conflict between Washington's FBI office and the KGB Rezidentura there, from the perspectives of agents on both sides, including the Jenningses' neighbor Stan Beeman (Noah Emmerich), an FBI agent working in counterintelligence. The series begins in the aftermath of the inauguration of President Ronald Reagan in January 1981 and concludes in December 1987, shortly before the leaders of the United States and the Soviet Union signed the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.
The show explores themes of marriage, identity, and parenthood, which were structured around the metaphorical connection between the Cold War and the Jenningses' marriage. The Americans was acclaimed by critics, many of whom considered it among the best television shows of its era; its writing, characters, and acting were often singled out. The series's final season earned Rhys the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series, while Weisberg and Fields won Outstanding Writing for a Drama Series; it also received the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series – Drama. Margo Martindale twice won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series for her performances in the third and fourth seasons. It was one of the rare drama shows to receive two Peabody Awards during its run. It has since been named one of the greatest television series of all time.

Title: The Good Doctor (American TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Good_Doctor_(American_TV_series)
Excerpt: The Good Doctor is an American medical drama television series, a remake of the 2013 South Korean series of the same name, which aired on ABC from September 25, 2017, to May 21, 2024, lasting seven seasons and 126 episodes. The series stars Freddie Highmore as Shaun Murphy, a young surgical resident with autism and savant syndrome at the fictional San Jose St. Bonaventure Hospital. Christina Chang, Richard Schiff, Will Yun Lee, Fiona Gubelmann, Paige Spara, Noah Galvin and Bria Samoné Henderson also star in the show. Nicholas Gonzalez, Antonia Thomas, Chuku Modu, Beau Garrett, Hill Harper, Tamlyn Tomita, Jasika Nicole, Osvaldo Benavides and Brandon Larracuente used to also star or had recurring roles in the show, but their characters were written out of the storyline as the series progressed. Modu reprised his role in the sixth season and became a series regular once again in the seventh season.
Actor Daniel Dae Kim noticed the original series and bought the rights for his production company. He began adapting the series and, in 2015, eventually shopped it to CBS Television Studios. CBS decided against creating a pilot, but, because Kim felt so strongly about the series, he bought back the rights from CBS. Eventually, Sony Pictures Television and Kim worked out a deal and brought on David Shore, creator of the Fox medical drama House, to develop the series. The series received a put pilot commitment at ABC and The Good Doctor was ordered to series in May 2017. On October 3, 2017, ABC picked up the series for a full season of 18 episodes. The series is primarily filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. David Shore and Liz Friedman serve as co-showrunners and Daniel Dae Kim is an executive producer for the show. The show is produced by Sony Pictures Television and ABC Signature, in association with production companies Shore Z Productions, 3AD, and Entermedia.
The series debuted on September 25, 2017. The Good Doctor has received generally mixed reviews from critics, who have praised Highmore's performance but criticized the series' storylines and its portrayal of autistic people. In April 2023, the series was renewed for a seventh season and premiered on February 20, 2024. It was later announced to be the final season.