Title: Underground Railroad
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Underground_Railroad
Excerpt: The Underground Railroad was an organized network of secret routes and safe houses for fugitive slaves to escape to the abolitionist Northern United States and Eastern Canada during the era of slavery in the United States. Slaves escaped from slavery as early as the 16th century; many of their escapes were unaided. However, a network of safe houses generally known as the Underground Railroad began to organize in the 1780s among Abolitionist Societies in the North. It ran north and grew steadily until President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation in 1863.  The escapees sought primarily to escape into free states or into Canada.
The Underground Railroad started at the place of enslavement. The routes followed natural and man-made modes of transportation: rivers, canals, bays, the Atlantic Coast, ferries and river crossings, roads and trails. Locations close to ports, free territories, and international boundaries prompted many escapes.
The network, primarily the work of free and enslaved African Americans, was assisted by abolitionists and other individuals sympathetic to the cause of the escapees. The slaves who risked capture and those who aided them were collectively referred to as the passengers and conductors of the Railroad, respectively. 
Various other routes led to Mexico, where slavery had been abolished, and to islands in the Caribbean that were not part of the slave trade. An earlier escape route running south toward Florida, then a Spanish possession (except 1763–1783), existed from the late 17th century until approximately 1790. 
During the American Civil War, freedom seekers escaped to Union lines in the South to obtain their freedom. One estimate suggests that by 1850, approximately 100,000 slaves had escaped to freedom via the network. According to former professor of Pan-African studies J. Blaine Hudson, who was dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Louisville, by the end of the Civil War, 500,000 or more African Americans had self-emancipated from slavery using the Underground Railroad.

Title: Indentured servitude
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indentured_servitude
Excerpt: Indentured servitude is a form of labor in which a person is contracted to work without salary for a specific number of years. The contract, called an "indenture", may be entered voluntarily for a prepaid lump sum, as payment for some good or service (e.g. travel), purported eventual compensation, or debt repayment. An indenture may also be imposed involuntarily as a judicial punishment. The practice has been compared to the similar institution of slavery, although there are differences.
Like any loan, an indenture could be sold. Most masters had to depend on middlemen or ships' masters to recruit and transport the workers, so indentureships were commonly sold by such men to planters or others upon the ships' arrival. Like slaves, their prices went up or down, depending on supply and demand. When the indenture (loan) was paid off, the worker was free but not always in good health or of sound body. Sometimes they might be given a plot of land or a small sum to buy it, but the land was usually poor. While most indentured laborers were adults, children could also be indentured, shifting the upkeep of the child to the contract holder but also giving the contract holder the benefit of the child's labour.

Title: Lei Áurea
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lei_%C3%81urea
Excerpt: The Lei Áurea (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈlej ˈawɾiɐ]; English: Golden Law), officially Law No. 3,353 of 13 May 1888, is the law that abolished slavery in Brazil. It was signed by Isabel, Princess Imperial of Brazil (1846–1921), an opponent of slavery, who acted as regent to Emperor Pedro II, who was in Europe.
The Lei Áurea was preceded by the Rio Branco Law of 28 September 1871 ("the Law of Free Birth"), which freed all children born to slave parents, and by the Saraiva-Cotegipe Law (also known as "the Law of Sexagenarians"), of 28 September 1885, that freed slaves when they reached the age of 60. Brazil was the last country in the Americas to abolish slavery.

Title: Languages of Brazil
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Languages_of_Brazil
Excerpt: Portuguese is the official and national language of Brazil, being widely spoken by nearly all of its population. Brazil is the most populous Portuguese-speaking country in the world, with its lands comprising the majority of Portugal's former colonial holdings in the Americas.
Aside from Portuguese, the country also has numerous minority languages, including over 200 different indigenous languages, such as Nheengatu (a descendant of Tupi), and languages of more recent European and Asian immigrants, such as Italian, German and Japanese. In some municipalities, those minor languages have official status: Nheengatu, for example, is an official language in São Gabriel da Cachoeira, while a number of German dialects are official in nine southern municipalities.
Hunsrik (also known as Riograndenser Hunsrückisch) is a Germanic language also spoken in Argentina, Paraguay and Venezuela, which derived from the Hunsrückisch dialect. Hunsrik has official status in Antônio Carlos and Santa Maria do Herval, and is recognized by the states of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina as part of their historical and cultural heritage.
As of 2023, the population of Brazil speaks or signs 238 languages, of which approximately 217 are indigenous and others are non-indigenous. In 2005, no indigenous language was spoken by more than 40,000 people.
With the implementation of the Orthographic Agreement of 1990, the orthographic norms of Brazil and Portugal have been largely unified, but still have some minor differences. Brazil enacted these changes in 2009 and Portugal enacted them in 2012.
In 2002, the Brazilian Sign Language (Libras) was made the official language of the Brazilian deaf community.
On December 9, 2010, the National Inventory of Linguistic Diversity was created, which will analyze proposals for revitalizing minority languages in the country. In 2019, the Technical Commission of the National Inventory of Linguistic Diversity was established.

Title: List of barefooters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_barefooters
Excerpt: This is a list of notable barefooters, real and fictional; notable people who are known for going barefoot as a part of their public image, and whose barefoot appearance was consistently reported by media or other reliable sources, or depicted in works of fiction dedicated to them.
A barefoot appearance can be a notable characteristic for an individual, as it has been associated with various cultural contexts throughout human history. In Ancient Greece, philosophers like Socrates and Diogenes adopted a barefoot lifestyle, and since the Middle Ages, it was seen as a sign of religious ascetism. In particular, discalceation, the practice of going constantly barefoot or clad only in sandals, is a common feature of Christian mendicant orders, practiced by the Discalced Carmelites (1568), the Feuillant Cistercians (1575), the Trinitarians (1594), the Mercedarians (1604), the Passionists, the Poor Clares and Colettine Poor Clares, and the Descalzas Reales. This is undertaken as part of vows of poverty and humility, as well as a remembrance of Moses on Mount Sinai. Hindu gurus go barefoot to allow their followers to demonstrate their love and respect by pranam, the ceremonial touching of a bare foot. It is also customary in Judaism and some Christian denominations to go barefoot while mourning.
The early 20th century saw the emergence of the barefoot dance movement, pioneered by Isadora Duncan, that anticipated the women's liberation movement and challenged the then prevalent perception of a barefoot appearance as being obscene. In the latter half of the 20th century, many singers, primarily women, have performed barefoot, a tendency that continues in the early 21st century.
Since the 1960s, barefooting has also been associated with counterculture, in particular with the hippie and New Age movements. A July 1967 Time magazine study on hippie philosophy credited the foundation of the hippie movement with historical precedent dating back to the aforementioned religious and spiritual figures of the ancient times, including Diogenes and the sadhu of India.
Following the example of Steve Jobs (who was influenced by the hippie movement), barefooting became a trend in American corporate culture. A number of entrepreneurs maintain a casual public image and appear barefoot or wearing sandals even on formal occasions.
Nowadays people who have a preference for not wearing shoes in public are striving for the recognition of a barefoot lifestyle, against the social stigma associated with barefooting, and for the abolition of laws and regulations that prohibit going barefoot in certain places. In particular, in the 2020s, it became a trend among various celebrities to appear barefoot in public, a tendency reinforced by TikTok.