Title: Benjamin Disraeli
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Disraeli
Excerpt: Benjamin Disraeli, 1st Earl of Beaconsfield (born Benjamin D'Israeli; 21 December 1804 – 19 April 1881), was a British statesman, Conservative politician and writer who twice served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He played a central role in the creation of the modern Conservative Party, defining its policies and its broad outreach. Disraeli is remembered for his influential voice in world affairs, his political battles with the Liberal Party leader William Ewart Gladstone, and his one-nation conservatism or "Tory democracy". He made the Conservatives the party most identified with the British Empire and military action to expand it, both of which were popular among British voters. He is the only British prime minister to have been born into a Jewish family.
Disraeli was born in Bloomsbury, at that time a part of Middlesex. His father left Judaism after a dispute at his synagogue; Benjamin became an Anglican at the age of 11. After several unsuccessful attempts, Disraeli entered the House of Commons in 1837. In 1846, Prime Minister Robert Peel split the party over his proposal to repeal the Corn Laws, which involved ending the tariff on imported grain. Disraeli clashed with Peel in the House of Commons, becoming a major figure in the party. When Lord Derby, the party leader, thrice formed governments in the 1850s and 1860s, Disraeli served as Chancellor of the Exchequer and Leader of the House of Commons.
Upon Derby's retirement in 1868, Disraeli became prime minister briefly before losing that year's general election. He returned to the opposition before leading the party to a majority in the 1874 general election. He maintained a close friendship with Queen Victoria who, in 1876, elevated him to the peerage as Earl of Beaconsfield. Disraeli's second term was dominated by the Eastern question—the slow decay of the Ottoman Empire and the desire of other European powers, such as Russia, to gain at its expense. Disraeli arranged for the British to purchase a major interest in the Suez Canal Company in Egypt. In 1878, faced with Russian victories against the Ottomans, he worked at the Congress of Berlin to obtain peace in the Balkans at terms favourable to Britain and unfavourable to Russia, its longstanding enemy. This diplomatic victory established Disraeli as one of Europe's leading statesmen.
World events thereafter moved against the Conservatives. Controversial wars in Afghanistan and South Africa undermined his public support. He angered farmers by refusing to reinstitute the Corn Laws in response to poor harvests and cheap imported grain. With Gladstone conducting a massive speaking campaign, the Liberals defeated Disraeli's Conservatives at the 1880 general election. In his final months, Disraeli led the Conservatives in opposition. Disraeli wrote novels throughout his career, beginning in 1826, and published his last completed novel, Endymion, shortly before he died at the age of 76.

Title: G. K. Chesterton
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G._K._Chesterton
Excerpt: Gilbert Keith Chesterton (29 May 1874 – 14 June 1936) was an English Christian apologist writer. Chesterton's wit, paradoxical style, and defence of tradition made him a dominant figure in early 20th-century literature. 
Chesterton created the fictional priest-detective Father Brown and wrote on apologetics, such as his works Orthodoxy and The Everlasting Man. Chesterton routinely referred to himself as an orthodox Christian and came to identify this position more and more with Catholicism, eventually converting from high church Anglicanism. Biographers have identified him as a successor to such Victorian authors as Matthew Arnold, Thomas Carlyle, John Henry Newman and John Ruskin.
Chesterton has been referred to as the "prince of paradox". Of his writing style, Time magazine observed: "Whenever possible, Chesterton made his points with popular sayings, proverbs, allegories—first carefully turning them inside out." His writings were an influence on Jorge Luis Borges, who compared Chesterton's work with that of Edgar Allan Poe.

Title: Dominic Grieve
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominic_Grieve
Excerpt: Dominic Charles Roberts Grieve (born 24 May 1956) is an English barrister and former politician who served as Shadow Home Secretary from 2008 to 2009 and Attorney General for England and Wales from 2010 to 2014. He served as the Member of Parliament (MP) for Beaconsfield from 1997 to 2019 and was the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee from 2015 to 2019.
Grieve attended the Cabinet as Attorney General for England and Wales and Advocate General for Northern Ireland from May 2010 to July 2014. He was dismissed as Attorney General by Prime Minister David Cameron as part of the 2014 Cabinet reshuffle, and was replaced by Jeremy Wright. Elected as a Conservative, Grieve had the Conservative whip removed in the September 2019 suspension of rebel Conservative MPs. He unsuccessfully stood as an independent candidate in Beaconsfield at the 2019 general election.
A liberal conservative, Grieve was a central figure on Brexit and frequently used his experience as a lawyer to propose amendments on the issue, with his interventions often being at odds with government policy. A prominent Remain supporter on Brexit, Grieve called for a second referendum on EU membership, and before being expelled had said that he and other Conservative rebels would support a vote of no confidence to bring down a Conservative government, if that were the only way to block the "catastrophic" damage from a bad Brexit. In spring 2019, Grieve was threatened with deselection by his local party after losing a confidence vote by members. In October 2019, following removal of the whip, Grieve announced that he would stand as an independent candidate in his constituency's seat at the next general election. It was announced that the Liberal Democrats would stand aside to help him, but to no avail, as he lost his seat.
Grieve is the president of the Franco-British Society. He was awarded the Legion of Honour in 2016, and broadcasts in French on French radio and television. He is a practising Anglican and was a member of the London diocesan synod of the Church of England. Grieve is also a member of the Garrick Club.

Title: Downton Abbey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Downton_Abbey
Excerpt: Downton Abbey is a British historical drama television series set in the early 20th century, created and co-written by Julian Fellowes. It first aired in the United Kingdom on ITV on 26 September 2010 and in the United States on PBS, which supported its production as part of its Masterpiece Classic anthology, on 9 January 2011. The show ran for fifty-two episodes across six series, including five Christmas specials.
Set on the fictional Yorkshire country estate of Downton Abbey between 16 April 1912 and New Year's Eve 1925, the series depicts the lives of the aristocratic Crawley family and their domestic servants in the post-Edwardian era, navigating their lives amidst the British social hierarchy. Plot events include news of the sinking of the Titanic (first series); the outbreak of the First World War, the Spanish influenza pandemic and the Marconi scandal (second series); the Irish War of Independence leading to the formation of the Irish Free State (third series); the Teapot Dome scandal (fourth series); the British general election of 1923 and the Beer Hall Putsch (fifth series). The sixth and final series introduces the rise of the working class during the interwar period and hints at the eventual decline of the British aristocracy.
Downton Abbey has been praised by television critics and received numerous accolades, including a Golden Globe Award for Best Miniseries or Television Film and a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Miniseries or Movie. It was recognised by Guinness World Records as the most critically acclaimed English-language television series of 2011. It earned 27 Primetime Emmy Award nominations after its first two series, the most for any international television series in the awards' history. It was the most watched television series on both ITV and PBS, and became the most successful British costume drama since the 1981 television serial of Brideshead Revisited.
After Carnival Films and ITV announced the television series end in 2015, the historical drama continued in a trilogy of films: an eponymous film in 2019, followed by A New Era in 2022, and The Grand Finale in 2025.

Title: List of former English Heritage blue plaques
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_former_English_Heritage_blue_plaques
Excerpt: This is a list of the blue plaques placed by English Heritage and its predecessors in the boroughs of London, the City of Westminster, and the City of London that are known to have been lost, replaced, or otherwise removed from the official London-wide commemorative plaque scheme. In some cases  plaques have been recovered and preserved and, in a few cases, re-erected with or without the blessing of those administrating the scheme.
The scheme began in 1866. It was initially administered by the Society of Arts which referred to the plaques erected under its auspices as 'Memorial Tablets' (sometimes 'Memorial Tablets of Great Men And Events' or 'Memorial Tablets of Eminent Men'). This arrangement continued until December 1901 when, by agreement and with the encouragement of the Clerk to the Council Laurence Gomme, the scheme was taken over the London County Council which christened it 'Indication of Houses of Historical Interest in London'. The LCC ran the scheme until the County of London was abolished in 1965 when its successor body the Greater London Council (GLC) took charge and expanded the scheme into the newly created outer boroughs. With the abolition of the GLC in 1986, administration of the official London-wide blue plaque scheme passed to English Heritage.
During the first 150 years of the scheme's operation, it was estimated that just over 100 houses bearing plaques had been demolished including 12 destroyed in the 1939-1945 war. The rules for the scheme, established by the Society of Arts in the early years of its operation, adopted and expanded on by the LCC in 1903 and formalised in 1954, require that plaques may generally only be affixed to a surviving building with a close association to the person commemorated. A practice whereby plaques would sometimes be re-erected at rebuilt properties with an explanatory supplementary tablet ceased in 1938. The post-1954 'authenticity rule' was relaxed on occasion by the LCC and GLC, but in the English Heritage era this has not been the case. If, after the loss of a commemorated building and retrieval of the plaque an appropriate alternative London address cannot be identified, the plaque cannot be reaffixed to the new building or remain part of the scheme. Houses bearing plaques to Captain Oates, Edward Lear and Hugh Dowding have been retrieved and placed in storage in recent years, there being no surviving alternative London address for any of these, whereas it has been possible for English Heritage to authentically re-site the plaque to Lilian Lindsay after the house to which it had originally been affixed was knocked down, an alternative residence having been identified.