Title: Ticket to Ride (song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ticket_to_Ride_(song)
Excerpt: "Ticket to Ride" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles, written primarily by John Lennon and credited to Lennon–McCartney. Issued as a single in April 1965, it became the Beatles' seventh consecutive number 1 hit in the United Kingdom and their third consecutive number 1 hit (and eighth in total) in the United States, and similarly topped national charts in Canada, Australia and Ireland. The song was included on their 1965 album Help!. Recorded at EMI Studios in London in February that year, the track marked a progression in the Beatles' work through the incorporation of drone and harder-sounding instrumentation relative to their previous releases. Among music critics, Ian MacDonald describes the song as "psychologically deeper than anything the Beatles had recorded before" and "extraordinary for its time".
"Ticket to Ride" appears in a sequence in the Beatles' second feature film, Help!, directed by Richard Lester. Live performances by the band were included in the Beatles at Shea Stadium concert film, on the live album documenting their concerts at the Hollywood Bowl, and on the 1996 Anthology 2 box set. In 1969, "Ticket to Ride" was covered by the Carpenters, whose version peaked at number 54 on the Billboard Hot 100.

Title: Brandi Carlile
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brandi_Carlile
Excerpt: Brandi Marie Carlile (born June 1, 1981) is an American singer-songwriter and producer. Her music spans multiple genres, including folk rock, alternative country, Americana, and classic rock. During her career, she has received eleven Grammy Awards and two Emmy Awards, in addition to being nominated for an Academy Award. In 2026, she was named one of Time's Women of the Year.
As of 2025, Carlile has released eight studio albums. Her debut major label album, Brandi Carlile (2005), was released to critical acclaim. Carlile garnered wider recognition with her 2007 single "The Story" from her album of the same name. She later released Give Up the Ghost (2009), Bear Creek (2012), The Firewatcher's Daughter (2015), By the Way, I Forgive You (2018), In These Silent Days (2021), and Returning to Myself (2025).
Carlile has received three Grammy Awards for her work as a songwriter on Tanya Tucker's album While I'm Livin' (2019). She was the most nominated woman at the 61st Annual Grammy Awards, receiving six nominations, including nominations for Album of the Year (By the Way, I Forgive You), Record of the Year and Song of the Year ("The Joke"). In 2019, Carlile formed an all-female quartet called the Highwomen with Amanda Shires, Maren Morris, and Natalie Hemby. The Highwomen released their self-titled debut album in 2019 to critical acclaim and commercial success, winning the Grammy Award for Best Country Song for the track "Crowded Table" in 2021.
Carlile has received two Emmy Awards. In 2022, Carlile won her first Children's and Family Emmy Award for Outstanding Short Form Program for the TV series We the People. In 2023, she received her second Emmy for Outstanding Original Song for a Preschool Program for the YouTube series Jam Van. In 2025, Carlile received her first nomination for the Academy Award for Best Original Song for her writing and vocal contribution on "Never Too Late" with Elton John.
Carlile has been involved in activism and fundraising on various issues, including humanitarian aid, COVID-19 relief, racial justice, and LGBTQ rights.

Title: Oppam (soundtrack)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oppam_(soundtrack)
Excerpt: Oppam is a feature film soundtrack for the 2016 film of the same name directed by Priyadarshan and starred Mohanlal in the lead role. The film's six-song soundtrack was composed by 4 Musics (a group consisting of Jim Jacob, Biby Matthew, Eldhose Alias, and Justin James), and featured lyrics written by Madhu Vasudevan, B. K. Harinarayanan and Sharon Joseph. The original score was composed by Ron Ethan Yohann in his Malayalam-film debut. The soundtrack album was released on the Satyam Audios label on 17 August 2016. The music was well received by critics and audiences, with the songs "Chinnamma Adi" and "Minungum Minnaminuge" becoming chartbusters.

Title: Yaariyan 2
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yaariyan_2
Excerpt: Yaariyan 2 is a 2023 Indian Hindi-language coming-of-age romantic drama film written and directed by Radhika Rao and Vinay Sapru and produced by Bhushan Kumar, Divya Khosla Kumar, Krishan Kumar and Aayush Maheshwari under T-Series Films, Rao and Sapru Films and BLM Motion Pictures. A spiritual successor to Khosla Kumar's 2014 directorial debut film Yaariyan and a remake of the 2014 Malayalam film Bangalore Days originally written and directed by Anjali Menon, it stars Divya Khosla Kumar alongside Yash Dasgupta, Pearl V Puri,  Meezaan Jafri, Anaswara Rajan, Priya Prakash Varrier and Hira Warina. The film was a box-office bomb.

Title: Andhra King Taluka
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andhra_King_Taluka
Excerpt: Andhra King Taluka is a 2025 Indian Telugu-language action comedy-drama film written and directed by Mahesh Babu P. Produced by Naveen Yerneni and Y. Ravi Shankar under Mythri Movie Makers, in association with T-Series, the film stars Ram Pothineni, Upendra and Bhagyashri Borse.
Music for the film was composed by the musical duo Vivek–Mervin, in their debut in Telugu cinema. Cinematography handled by Siddhartha Nuni and editing by A. Sreekar Prasad.
Andhra King Taluka was released on 27 November 2025 in theatres. The film received positive reviews from critics and audiences, who praised the lead pair's performances, direction, and music, but criticised the lengthy runtime. Despite the positive reviews, the film flopped at the box office, grossing over only ₹32.50 crore worldwide. Despite its failure at the box office the film gained an overwhelmingly positive response from OTT audience.