Title: Rio Bravo (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rio_Bravo_(film)
Excerpt: Rio Bravo is a 1959 American Western film directed and produced by Howard Hawks and starring John Wayne, Dean Martin, Angie Dickinson, Ricky Nelson, Walter Brennan, and Ward Bond. Written by Jules Furthman and Leigh Brackett, based on the short story "Rio Bravo" by B.H. McCampbell, the film stars Wayne as a Texan sheriff who arrests the brother of a powerful local rancher for murder and then has to hold the man in jail until a U.S. marshal can arrive. With the help of a lame old man, a drunk, and a young gunfighter, they hold off the rancher's gang. Rio Bravo was filmed on location at Old Tucson Studios outside Tucson, Arizona, in Eastmancolor, with film processing provided by  Technicolor.
In 2014, Rio Bravo was deemed "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant" by the Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.

Title: Lonesome Cowboys
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lonesome_Cowboys
Excerpt: Lonesome Cowboys is a 1968 American Western drama film directed by Andy Warhol, and written and produced by Paul Morrissey. A satire of Hollywood Westerns, it was initially screened in November 1968 at the San Francisco International Film Festival, where it won the Best Film Award. On May 5, 1969, it was shown for initial viewings at the New Andy Warhol Garrick Theatre in New York City.

Title: Hank Worden
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hank_Worden
Excerpt: Hank Worden (born Norton Earl Worden; July 23, 1901 – December 6, 1992) was an American cowboy-turned-character actor who appeared in many Westerns, including a dozen John Ford films, such as The Searchers, and the TV series The Lone Ranger.

Title: Cowboy culture
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cowboy_culture
Excerpt: Cowboy culture is the set of behaviors, preferences, and appearances associated with (or resulting from the influence of) the attitudes, ethics, and history of the American cowboy. The term can describe the content or stylistic appearance of an artistic representation, often built on romanticized impressions of the wild west, or certain aspects of people's lifestyle, such as their choices in recreation (including enjoyment of Western movies and music), apparel, and western or southwestern cuisine.

Title: Cowboy Carter
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cowboy_Carter
Excerpt: Cowboy Carter (also referred to as Act II: Cowboy Carter) is the eighth studio album by American singer and songwriter Beyoncé. It was released on March 29, 2024, by Parkwood Entertainment and Columbia Records. A concept album, Cowboy Carter is the second of a planned trilogy of albums, following Renaissance (2022). Beyoncé conceived the album as a journey through a reinvention of Americana, spotlighting the overlooked contributions of Black pioneers to American musical and cultural history.
A genre-blending album rooted in country music, Cowboy Carter is influenced by Beyoncé's upbringing in Texas, incorporating eclectic styles of music of the Southern United States. Conceptually, the album is presented as a radio broadcast, with country singers Dolly Parton, Linda Martell, and Willie Nelson acting as disc jockeys. The album's songs feature rising Black country artists such as Shaboozey, Tanner Adell, Brittney Spencer, Tiera Kennedy, Reyna Roberts, and Willie Jones. The music is driven by a range of acoustic instruments played by musicians including Stevie Wonder, Paul McCartney, and Nile Rodgers, among others.
Cowboy Carter was met with universal acclaim and appeared on multiple year-end lists; critics stated that the album's genre experimentation, expansive scope and eclectic references aided an ambitious reimagining of Americana and country through the lens of their Black roots. At the 67th Grammy Awards, Beyoncé became the first Black woman in 25 years to win Album of the Year and the first Black artist to win Best Country Album; the album's third single, "II Most Wanted", won Best Country Duo/Group Performance. The album increased the listenership of country music, drove cultural conversations on Black musicians' place within the genre, boosted the careers of rising country artists, and increased the popularity of Western wear and culture.
Cowboy Carter debuted at number one in several countries and broke multiple chart and streaming records. In the United States, it topped the Billboard 200 and was Beyoncé's first to top the Top Country Albums chart, selling 407,000 album-equivalent units. The album was supported by three singles, "Texas Hold 'Em", "16 Carriages", and "II Most Wanted", with the first becoming Beyoncé's ninth US number-one single and the first country song by a Black woman to top the Billboard Hot 100 and Hot Country Songs charts. To support the album, Beyoncé embarked on the Cowboy Carter Tour from April 28 to July 26, 2025.