Title: Peter O'Toole
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_O%27Toole
Excerpt: Peter James O'Toole (; 2 August 1932 – 14 December 2013) was an English and Irish actor. Known for his work on stage and screen, he received various accolades, including an Academy Honorary Award, a BAFTA Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, and four Golden Globe Awards, in addition to nominations for a Grammy Award and a Laurence Olivier Award.
O'Toole started his training at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) in London and began working in the theatre, gaining recognition as a Shakespearean actor at the Bristol Old Vic and with the English Stage Company. In 1959, he made his West End debut in The Long and the Short and the Tall, and played the title role in Hamlet in the National Theatre's first production in 1963. Excelling on stage, O'Toole was known for his "hellraiser" lifestyle off-stage. He received a nomination for the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Comedy Performance for his portrayal of Jeffrey Bernard in the play Jeffrey Bernard Is Unwell (1990).
Making his film debut in 1959, O'Toole received his first Academy Award for Best Actor nomination for portraying T. E. Lawrence in the historical epic Lawrence of Arabia (1962). He was further Oscar-nominated for playing King Henry II in both Becket (1964) and The Lion in Winter (1968), a public school teacher in Goodbye, Mr. Chips (1969), a paranoid schizophrenic in The Ruling Class (1972), a ruthless film director in The Stunt Man (1980), a film actor in My Favorite Year (1982), and an elderly man in Venus (2006). He holds the record for the most Oscar nominations for acting without a win (tied with Glenn Close). In 2002, he was awarded the Academy Honorary Award for his career achievements.
O'Toole also starred in films such as What's New Pussycat? (1965), How to Steal a Million (1966), Man of La Mancha (1972), Caligula (1979), Zulu Dawn (1979), and Supergirl (1984), with supporting roles in The Last Emperor (1987), Bright Young Things (2003), Troy (2004), Stardust (2007), and Dean Spanley (2008). He voiced Anton Ego, the restaurant critic in Pixar's animated film Ratatouille (2007). On television, he received the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie for his portrayal of Bishop Pierre Cauchon in the CBS miniseries Joan of Arc (1999). He was Emmy-nominated for his performances as Lucius Flavius Silva in the ABC miniseries Masada (1981), and Paul von Hindenburg in the miniseries Hitler: The Rise of Evil (2003).

Title: Man of La Mancha (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man_of_La_Mancha_(film)
Excerpt: Man of La Mancha is a 1972 film adaptation of the Broadway musical Man of La Mancha by Dale Wasserman, with music by Mitch Leigh and lyrics by Joe Darion. The musical was suggested by the classic novel Don Quixote by Miguel de Cervantes, but more directly based on Wasserman's 1959 non-musical television play I, Don Quixote, which combines a semi-fictional episode from the life of Cervantes with scenes from his novel.
Though financed by Italian producer Alberto Grimaldi and shot in Rome, the film is in English, with all principal actors either British or American, excepting Sophia Loren. (Gino Conforti, the Barber, is an American of Italian descent.) The film was released by United Artists and is known in Italy as L'Uomo della Mancha.
Produced and directed by Arthur Hiller, the film stars Peter O'Toole as both Miguel de Cervantes and Don Quixote, James Coco as both Cervantes' manservant and Don Quixote's "squire" Sancho Panza, and Sophia Loren as scullery maid and prostitute Aldonza, whom the delusional Don Quixote idolizes as Dulcinea. Gillian Lynne staged the film's choreography and fight scenes.

Title: Becket (1964 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Becket_(1964_film)
Excerpt: Becket is a 1964 British historical drama film about the historic, tumultuous relationship between Henry II of England and his friend-turned-bishop Thomas Becket. It is a dramatic film adaptation of the 1959 play Becket or the Honour of God by Jean Anouilh made by Hal Wallis Productions and released by Paramount Pictures. It was directed by Peter Glenville and produced by Hal B. Wallis with Joseph H. Hazen as executive producer. The screenplay was written by Edward Anhalt based on Anouilh's play. The music score was by Laurence Rosenthal, the cinematography by Geoffrey Unsworth and the editing by Anne V. Coates.
The film stars Richard Burton as Thomas Becket and Peter O'Toole as King Henry II, with John Gielgud as King Louis VII, Donald Wolfit as Gilbert Foliot, Paolo Stoppa as Pope Alexander III, Martita Hunt as Empress Matilda, Pamela Brown as Queen Eleanor, Siân Phillips, Felix Aylmer, Gino Cervi, David Weston and Wilfrid Lawson.
Restored prints of Becket were re-released in 30 cinemas in the US in early 2007, following an extensive restoration from the film's YCM separation masters. The film was released on DVD by MPI Home Video in May 2007 and on Blu-ray Disc in November 2008. The new film prints carry a Dolby Digital soundtrack, although the soundtrack of the original film, which originally opened as a roadshow theatrical release, was also in stereo.
Becket won the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay, and was nominated for eleven other awards, including for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actor, and twice for Best Actor.

Title: Peter Glenville
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Glenville
Excerpt: Peter Glenville (born Peter Patrick Brabazon Browne; 28 October 1913 – 3 June 1996) was an English theatre and film director, and actor. He was a prominent director of stage plays on the West End and Broadway in the 1950s. He was  nominated for four Tony Awards for his American plays. 
In the following decade, he transitioned to become a film director. His first film, The Prisoner (1955), was nominated for Best Film and Best British Film at the 9th British Academy Film Awards (BAFTA).
Glenville was nominated for a Best Director Oscar and a Golden Globe for the 1964 film adaptation of the Jean Anouilh play Becket. He had previously directed the stage version. Two of his other films, Summer and Smoke (1961) and Term of Trial (1962), were both nominated for the Venice Film Festival's Golden Lion. In 2013 critic Rupert Christiansen posthumously described him as a "forgotten giant of mid-20th-century directing."

Title: Summer and Smoke (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Summer_and_Smoke_(film)
Excerpt: Summer and Smoke is a 1961 American drama film directed by Peter Glenville, and starring Laurence Harvey and Geraldine Page, with Rita Moreno, Una Merkel, John McIntire, Thomas Gomez, Pamela Tiffin, Malcolm Atterbury, Lee Patrick, and Earl Holliman. Based on the Tennessee Williams play of the same name, it was adapted by James Poe and Meade Roberts.