Title: Pablo Honey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pablo_Honey
Excerpt: Pablo Honey is the debut studio album by the English rock band Radiohead, released on 22 February 1993 in the UK by Parlophone and on 20 April 1993 in the US by Capitol Records. It was produced by Sean Slade, Paul Q. Kolderie and Radiohead's co-manager Chris Hufford.
Radiohead formed in 1985 at Abingdon School in Abingdon, Oxfordshire, and signed a recording contract with EMI in 1991. Their debut EP, Drill (1992), achieved little success. For their debut album, Radiohead's management targeted the American market and chose American producers. Pablo Honey was recorded in three weeks at Chipping Norton Recording Studios in Oxfordshire in 1992. The recording was hampered by Radiohead's lack of studio experience.
The singles "Creep", "Anyone Can Play Guitar" and "Stop Whispering" initially made little impact. However, "Creep" gradually gained international radio play, reaching number seven on the UK singles chart after it was reissued in 1993. Radiohead embarked on an aggressive promotional tour in the US supporting Belly and PJ Harvey, followed by a European tour supporting James. In May 1995, a live video, Live at the Astoria (1995), was released on VHS.
Pablo Honey reached number 22 on the UK Albums Chart. It was certified gold in the UK in 1994 and double platinum in 2013. In the US, it was certified platinum in 1995. Pablo Honey received generally favourable reviews, but some found it underdeveloped or derivative. Though it is less acclaimed than Radiohead's later work, some retrospective reviews have been positive and it has appeared in lists of the greatest albums. The members of Radiohead have criticised it, citing weaker songwriting and their studio inexperience. "Creep" remains Radiohead's most successful single.

Title: Ugly Kid Joe
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ugly_Kid_Joe
Excerpt: Ugly Kid Joe is an American hard rock band from Isla Vista, California, formed in 1989. The band's name spoofs the glam metal band Pretty Boy Floyd's name.
To date, Ugly Kid Joe have released five full-length albums, two compilation albums and two EPs. Their best selling records are As Ugly as They Wanna Be (1991) and America's Least Wanted (1992), which were both certified double platinum by the RIAA; the former is notable for being the first EP to go platinum. The band broke up in 1997, but announced a reunion in 2010 and subsequently recommenced activity.

Title: The Veronicas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Veronicas
Excerpt: The Veronicas are an Australian pop rock duo from Brisbane. The group was formed in 2004 by identical twin sisters Lisa and Jessica Origliasso.
In 2005, the Veronicas released their debut studio album, titled The Secret Life of..., which peaked at number two on the Australian Album Chart and was certified 4× platinum by Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for selling over 280,000 copies. The album spawned five singles, led by "4ever", three of which were top ten singles in Australia. In 2007, the duo released their second studio album, Hook Me Up, which also peaked at number two in Australia and was certified 2× platinum for selling over 140,000 copies. The album garnered four Australian top ten singles. The album's title track, "Hook Me Up", was the Veronicas' first number one single in Australia, while "Untouched" was an international top-ten hit, especially in Sweden, where it topped the chart for seven weeks.
Following a lengthy hiatus (broken only by the July 2012 release of the Australian top-40 single "Lolita" and various gigs for their fans), in September 2014, the Veronicas released "You Ruin Me", the first single from their self-titled third studio album. The song debuted at number one on the ARIA chart, becoming the women's second chart-topping single and their first to debut in the top spot. It also charted in United States and United Kingdom. The album was released both physically and digitally on 21 November 2014. In 2016, they hosted the ARIA Music Awards. They spent most of the period between 2016 and 2021 releasing gold and platinum singles in Australia, leading to the release of both their fourth and fifth albums, Godzilla and Human, in May and June 2021, respectively.
The duo's MTV reality show The Veronicas: Blood Is for Life premiered in November 2019. In 2021 the sisters competed as contestants on the fifth season of The Celebrity Apprentice Australia. On 25 February 2020, the Veronicas released a unisex, cruelty-free fragrance named after their song "Untouched". They started their first beauty brand Lemons aimed to be "allergen free and auto-immune friendly brand" due to be released in April 2025.
In November 2022, they signed with the label Big Noise. Their sixth album Gothic Summer was released in March 2024.

Title: Everything About You (Ugly Kid Joe song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everything_About_You_(Ugly_Kid_Joe_song)
Excerpt: "Everything About You" is a song by American heavy metal band Ugly Kid Joe, originally from their 1991 EP, As Ugly as They Wanna Be. The pop-metal song gained popularity after being featured in the 1992 hit film Wayne's World and was later included on the band's full-length debut album, America's Least Wanted, which was also released in 1992.
Issued in March 1992 by Mercury Records as Ugly Kid Joe's debut single, "Everything About You" was a commercial success around the world, peaking at number three on the UK Singles Chart, number nine on the US Billboard Hot 100, and number five in Ireland, the Netherlands, and Norway. In Australia, the song was released as part of the As Ugly as They Wanna Be EP, reaching number four on the ARIA Singles Chart.
The song has been seen as "[signifying] the intersection of fading hair metal and rising grunge by combining the former’s optimistic sound with the latter’s pessimistic lyrics".

Title: List of songs written by Diane Warren
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_songs_written_by_Diane_Warren
Excerpt: This is a list of the songs that have been written by American songwriter Diane Warren. It is split into the full list of contributions and those that have performed in the charts across various countries. Additionally, the international singles and certifications are placed by order of the song's initial release, which may coincide with an album release.