Title: Sex comedy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sex_comedy
Excerpt: Sex comedy (also known as sexual comedy and erotic comedy) is a genre in which comedy is motivated by sexual situations and love affairs. Although "sex comedy" is primarily a description of dramatic forms such as theatre and film, literary works such as those of Ovid and Giovanni Boccaccio may be considered sex comedies.
Sex comedy was popular in 17th century English Restoration theatre. From 1953 to 1965, Hollywood released a number of sex comedies, some featuring stars such as Doris Day, Jack Lemmon and Marilyn Monroe. The United Kingdom released a spate of sex comedies in the 1970s, notably the Carry On series. Hollywood released Animal House in 1978, which was followed by a long line of teen sex comedies in the early 1980s, e.g. Porky's, Bachelor Party and Risky Business. Other countries with a significant sex comedy film production include Argentina (comedia picaresca), Brazil (pornochanchada), Italy (commedia sexy all'italiana) and Mexico (sexicomedias).

Title: List of American films of 1950
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_American_films_of_1950
Excerpt: More than 383 U.S. produced feature films were released in 1950.
Fred Astaire hosted the 23rd Academy Awards ceremony on March 29, 1951, held at the RKO Pantages Theatre in Hollywood. The winner of the Best Motion Picture category was Twentieth Century-Fox's All About Eve.
The other four nominated pictures were Born Yesterday, Father of the Bride, King Solomon's Mines and Sunset Boulevard.
All About Eve was nominated for 14 Oscars, beating the previous record of Gone with the Wind (13).
Newcomer Judy Holliday won the Oscar for Best Actress for her portrayal of showgirl mistress Billie Dawn in the film version of the play Born Yesterday, a role which she had originated on Broadway. Other Best Actress nominees for that year were Bette Davis and Anne Baxter for All About Eve, Eleanor Parker for Caged and Gloria Swanson for Sunset Boulevard.
José Ferrer won the Oscar for Best Actor for his role as the title character in the film version of the 1946 Broadway play, Cyrano de Bergerac, a role which he had played on Broadway. Other nominees that year were Louis Calhern for The Magnificent Yankee, William Holden for Sunset Boulevard, James Stewart for Harvey and Spencer Tracy for Father of the Bride.
The 8th Golden Globe Awards also honored the best films of 1950. That year's Golden Globes also marked the first time that the Best Actor and Actress categories were split into Musical or Comedy or Drama. However, Best Picture remained a single category until the 9th Golden Globe Awards, when it too was split into two categories. Ferrer won the Golden Globe for Best Actor – Motion Picture – Drama, for Cyrano de Bergerac, while Fred Astaire won Best Actor – Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy for Three Little Words. Swanson won Best Actress – Motion Picture – Drama for Sunset Boulevard, while Holliday won for Best Actress – Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy for Born Yesterday. Sunset Boulevard won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture.
1950 also saw the film debut of several future stars, such as Marlon Brando, Charlton Heston, Sidney Poitier, Piper Laurie and Debbie Reynolds.

Title: Avantika (actress)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avantika_(actress)
Excerpt: Avantika Vandanapu ( ə-VAHN-ti-kə; Telugu: [avan̪t̪ika ʋan̪d̪anapu]; born January 25, 2005), known mononymously as Avantika, is an American actress. She began her career with the 2016 Telugu film Brahmotsavam and later took on several other projects within Telugu cinema. She then transitioned to American cinema and had her first lead role in the Disney Channel original movie Spin (2021) and subsequently starred in Netflix's Senior Year (2022). She gained recognition with supporting roles in the musical comedy Mean Girls and horror film Tarot (both 2024).

Title: Kranti Redkar
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kranti_Redkar
Excerpt: Kranti Redkar-Wankhede (née Redkar; born 17 August 1982) is an Indian film actress, director, and writer who primarily worked in Marathi films.
After making her acting debut in 2000 in Soon Asavi Ashi, she gained recognition for the "Kombadi Palali" song from the movie Jatra: Hyalagaad Re Tyalagaad (2005). She established herself with roles in the dramas Majha Navra Tujhi Bayko (2006), Sakkha Savatra (2008), Shikshanachya Aaicha Gho (2010) and On Duty 24 Taas (2010). She also worked in the American biographical film The Letters (2014). Further praise came for her performances in the romantic drama Teen Bayka Fajiti Aika (2012), No Entry: Pudhe Dhoka Aahey (2012), the comedy Kho-Kho (2013), the ensemble drama Sugar Salt Ani Prem (2015), and the comedy mystery Murder Mestri (2015).
Redkar made her directorial debut with the romantic Kaakan in 2015, for which she won the Best Director Award at the Nashik International Film Festival. She next gained acclaim for portraying fraudsters in Kiran Kulkarni vs Kiran Kulkarni (2016) and a surrogate maid in Karaar (2017). The latter received a nomination for Best Supporting Actress at the 4th Filmfare Awards Marathi. In addition to this, she launched her own clothing brand, ZiyaZyda, in 2019. Redkar is married to Zonal Director of the NCB, Sameer Wankhede, with whom she has twin daughters.

Title: Welcome to the Jungle (2026 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welcome_to_the_Jungle_(2026_film)
Excerpt: Welcome to the Jungle is a 2026 Indian Hindi-language action adventure comedy film directed by Ahmed Khan, written by Neeraj Vora, and produced by Firoz Nadiadwala, Rakesh Dang, and Vedant Vikaas Baali under Base Industries Group, Cape of Good Films and Seeta Films. The film stars an ensemble cast of Akshay Kumar, Suniel Shetty, Jackie Shroff, Paresh Rawal, Arshad Warsi, Raveena Tandon, Jacqueline Fernandez, Disha Patani, Johnny Lever, Rajpal Yadav, Farida Jalal, Lara Dutta, Tusshar Kapoor, Shreyas Talpade, Aftab Shivdasani, Yashpal Sharma (actor) and Akshara Singh cameo as bhojpuri actress. It is the third instalment in the Welcome film series, succeeding Welcome (2007) and Welcome Back (2015). It is loosely based on the 2005 American film The Producers as well as the 2008 American film Tropic Thunder. Principal photography took place in Mumbai and the United Arab Emirates.
Welcome to the Jungle released worldwide on 26 June 2026. The film receiving mixed reviews from critics and was a commercial success. It is the 6th highest-grossing Hindi film of 2026.