Title: Raiders of the Lost Ark
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raiders_of_the_Lost_Ark
Excerpt: Raiders of the Lost Ark is a 1981 American action-adventure film directed by Steven Spielberg and written by Lawrence Kasdan, based on a story by George Lucas and Philip Kaufman. Set in 1936, the film stars Harrison Ford as Indiana Jones, a globetrotting archaeologist vying with Nazi German forces to recover the long-lost Ark of the Covenant which is said to make an army invincible. Teaming up with his tough former romantic interest Marion Ravenwood (Karen Allen), Jones races to stop a rival archaeologist, René Belloq (Paul Freeman), from guiding the Nazis to the Ark and its power.
Lucas conceived Raiders of the Lost Ark in the early 1970s. Seeking to modernize the serial films of the early 20th century, he developed the idea further with Kaufman, who suggested the Ark as the film's goal. Lucas eventually focused on developing his 1977 film Star Wars. Development on Raiders of the Lost Ark resumed that year when he shared the idea with Spielberg, who joined the project several months later. While the pair had ideas for set pieces and stunts for the film, they hired Kasdan to fill in the narrative gaps between them. Principal photography began in June 1980 on a $20 million budget, and concluded that September. Filming took place on sets at Elstree Studios, England, and on location mainly in La Rochelle, France, Tunisia, and Hawaii.
Pre-release polling showed little audience interest in the film leading up to its release date on June 12, 1981, especially compared to Superman II. However, Raiders of the Lost Ark became the highest-grossing film of the year, earning approximately $354 million worldwide, and played in some theaters for over a year. It was also a critical success, receiving praise for its set pieces, humor, and action sequences. The film was nominated for several awards, and won five Academy Awards, seven Saturn Awards, and one BAFTA, among other accolades.
Raiders of the Lost Ark is considered by critics to be one of the greatest films ever made and has had a lasting influence on popular culture, spawning a host of imitators across several media and inspiring other filmmakers. The United States Library of Congress selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry in 1999. Raiders of the Lost Ark is the first entry in what became the Indiana Jones franchise, which includes four more films—Temple of Doom (1984), Last Crusade (1989), Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008), and Dial of Destiny (2023)—a television series, video games, comic books, novels, theme park attractions, and toys.

Title: Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bram_Stoker%27s_Dracula_(1992_film)
Excerpt: Bram Stoker's Dracula is a 1992 American Gothic horror film co-produced and directed by Francis Ford Coppola and written by James V. Hart, based on the eponymous 1897 novel Dracula by Bram Stoker. The film stars Gary Oldman, Winona Ryder, Anthony Hopkins, and Keanu Reeves. Set in 19th-century England and Romania, it follows Count Dracula (Oldman), a vampire who falls in love with Mina Murray (Ryder), the fiancée of his solicitor Jonathan Harker (Reeves). When Dracula wreaks havoc in London, Professor Abraham Van Helsing (Hopkins), an expert in vampirism, is summoned to bring an end to his reign of terror.
Principal photography began at Sony Pictures Studios and Universal Studios Lot on October 14, 1991, and concluded on January 31, 1992, in addition to reshoots at Saint Sophia Greek Orthodox Cathedral in Los Angeles. The closing credits theme "Love Song for a Vampire" was written and performed by Annie Lennox.
Bram Stoker's Dracula was theatrically released by Columbia Pictures in the United States on November 13, 1992, to mixed reviews from critics, with praise for Coppola's direction, the production values, and Oldman's performance, but criticism for the story and Reeves' performance. The film opened at the top of the box office, grossing $215.9 million against its $40 million production budget. At the 65th Academy Awards, the film received four nominations and won three, Best Costume Design for Eiko Ishioka, Best Sound Editing, and Best Makeup.

Title: List of artists influenced by Michael Jackson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_artists_influenced_by_Michael_Jackson
Excerpt: Michael Jackson, also known as the King of Pop, was a pop, music, dance and fashion icon. His distinctive sound and style has influenced numerous artists of various music genres.

Title: Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spider-Man:_Into_the_Spider-Verse
Excerpt: Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse is a 2018 American animated superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man. Directed by Bob Persichetti, Peter Ramsey and Rodney Rothman from a screenplay by Phil Lord and Rothman, it is the first animated film in the Spider-Man franchise. Shameik Moore stars as the voice of  Miles Morales, with Jake Johnson, Hailee Steinfeld, Mahershala Ali, Brian Tyree Henry, Lily Tomlin, Luna Lauren Vélez, Zoë Kravitz, John Mulaney, Kimiko Glenn, Nicolas Cage, Kathryn Hahn, and Liev Schreiber in supporting voice roles. The film's story follows Miles as he becomes the new Spider-Man and teams up with other Spider-People from various parallel universes to save his universe from the Kingpin. It was produced by Columbia Pictures and Sony Pictures Animation in association with Marvel Entertainment.
Plans for an animated Spider-Man film by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller were leaked in 2014 and announced in April 2015. Persichetti, Ramsey and Rothman joined over the next two years, with Moore and Schreiber cast in April 2017. Lord and Miller wanted the film to have a unique style, combining computer animation with hand-drawn comic techniques inspired by the work of Miles Morales co-creator Sara Pichelli. The film required  the largest crew of animators used by Sony Pictures Animation on a feature film.
The film premiered at the Regency Village Theater in Los Angeles on December 1, 2018, and was theatrically released in the United States on December 14. The film grossed $395 million worldwide against a $90 million budget and received critical acclaim. The film won Best Animated Feature at the 91st Academy Awards, and numerous other accolades. The film is lauded as one of the most important animated films of the 2010s, and acknowledged for its groundbreaking achievement in animation, with praise for its aesthetics and recognition of its influence.
A sequel, Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse, was released on June 2, 2023, to similar critical acclaim and greater commercial success, while a third film, Spider-Man: Beyond the Spider-Verse, is scheduled for release on June 18, 2027, with spin-offs in development.

Title: The Falcon and the Winter Soldier
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Falcon_and_the_Winter_Soldier
Excerpt: The Falcon and the Winter Soldier is an American television miniseries created by Malcolm Spellman for the streaming service Disney+, based on Marvel Comics featuring the characters Sam Wilson / Falcon and Bucky Barnes / Winter Soldier. It is the second television series in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) produced by Marvel Studios, sharing continuity with the films of the franchise, and is set six months after Sam Wilson was handed the mantle of Captain America in the film Avengers: Endgame (2019). Wilson teams up with Bucky Barnes to stop anti-patriots who believe the world was better during the Blip. Spellman served as head writer for the series, which was directed by Kari Skogland.
Sebastian Stan and Anthony Mackie reprise their respective roles as Barnes and Wilson from the film series, with Wyatt Russell, Erin Kellyman, Danny Ramirez, Georges St-Pierre, Adepero Oduye, Don Cheadle, Daniel Brühl, Emily VanCamp, Florence Kasumba, and Julia Louis-Dreyfus also starring. By September 2018, Marvel Studios was developing several limited series for Disney+ centered on supporting characters from the MCU films, such as Wilson and Barnes. Spellman was hired in October and chose to focus on the racial and political issues raised by Wilson, a Black man, being handed Captain America's shield at the end of Endgame. The Falcon and the Winter Soldier was announced in April 2019, when Stan and Mackie were confirmed to be starring. Skogland was hired to direct the next month. Filming began in October 2019 in Atlanta, Georgia, before moving to the Czech Republic in March 2020. Production was halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but it resumed in Atlanta in September before wrapping in the Czech Republic in October.
The Falcon and the Winter Soldier premiered on March 19, 2021, and ran for six episodes until April 23. It is part of Phase Four of the MCU. The series received positive reviews, with critics highlighting the actors' chemistry and the series' social commentary but criticizing its pacing. It received several accolades, including five Primetime Emmy Award nominations. A feature film, Captain America: Brave New World (2025), continues Wilson's story from the series.