Title: Hannibal Lecter
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hannibal_Lecter
Excerpt: Hannibal Lecter is a fictional character created by American novelist Thomas Harris. Lecter is a cannibalistic serial killer and former forensic psychiatrist; after his incarceration, he is consulted by FBI agents Will Graham and Clarice Starling to help them find other serial killers.
Lecter first appeared in a small role as a villain in Harris' 1981 thriller novel Red Dragon, which was adapted into the film Manhunter (1986), with Brian Cox as Lecter (spelled "Lecktor"). Lecter had a larger role in The Silence of the Lambs (1988); the 1991 film adaptation starred Anthony Hopkins as Lecter, for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor. Hopkins reprised the role for the 2001 adaptation of the 1999 novel Hannibal, which sees Lecter evading recapture, and for a second adaptation of Red Dragon in 2002.
The fourth novel, Hannibal Rising (2006), explores Lecter's childhood and development into a serial killer. He was played in the 2007 film adaptation by Gaspard Ulliel. In the NBC television series Hannibal (2013–2015), which focuses on Lecter's relationship with Graham, Lecter was played by Mads Mikkelsen, who won the Saturn Award for Best Actor on Television for his performance.
In 2003, Lecter, as portrayed by Hopkins, was named the greatest villain in American cinema by the American Film Institute. In 2010, Entertainment Weekly named him one of the 100 greatest characters of the preceding 20 years. In 2019, Lecter, as portrayed by Mikkelsen, was named the 18th-greatest villain in television history by Rolling Stone.

Title: Thomas the Tank Engine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_the_Tank_Engine
Excerpt: Thomas the Tank Engine is a fictional tank locomotive who originated from the British children's books The Railway Series, created and written by Wilbert Awdry with his son Christopher, first published in 1945. Thomas runs on the Fat Controller's North Western Railway on the Island of Sodor. He became the most popular character in the series and is the titular protagonist in the accompanying television series adaptation Thomas & Friends, which has expanded into being a media franchise.
Based on the LB&SCR E2 class, Thomas debuted in the 1946 book Thomas the Tank Engine—the second book in The Railway Series—and was the focus of the four short stories featured within it. 
In 1979, British writer and producer Britt Allcroft came across the books and arranged a deal to make the television series Thomas the Tank Engine & Friends (later rebranded as Thomas & Friends). The programme became an award-winning hit around the world, with a range of spin-off commercial products. Since then, Thomas has become well-known in popular culture.

Title: Barney Stinson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barney_Stinson
Excerpt: Barney Stinson is a fictional character portrayed by Neil Patrick Harris and created by Carter Bays and Craig Thomas for the CBS television series How I Met Your Mother (2005–2014).
One of the show's main characters, Barney is known for his eccentric personality. He is a womanizer known for his love of expensive suits, laser tag, and Scotch whisky. To seduce women he frequently utilizes a variety of elaborate strategies, or 'plays', compiled in his 'playbook'. In later seasons, he has a few serious relationships, then marries, divorces, has a child with an unnamed woman from a one-night stand, and then marries the same woman again (as implied in the alternate ending). Barney's catchphrases included "Suit up!", “Go for Barney”, "What up?!", "Stinson out", "Legendary", "Wait for it" (often combining the two as "legen—wait for it—dary!"), "Daddy's home", "Haaaaave you met Ted", “True story”, “That’s the dream!”, "Challenge accepted", "Just.. just... okay?", and "I only have one rule." (that one rule is constantly changing).
Critics have praised the character and credited Harris’ performance for much of the show's success. Barney is considered the show's breakout character.

Title: Mason Verger
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mason_Verger
Excerpt: Mason R. Verger is a fictional character and the main antagonist of Thomas Harris' 1999 novel Hannibal, as well as its 2001 film adaptation and the second and third seasons of the TV series Hannibal. In the film, he is portrayed by Gary Oldman, while in  the TV series he is portrayed by Michael Pitt and Joe Anderson.

Title: 2026 deaths in the United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_deaths_in_the_United_States
Excerpt: The following notable deaths in the United States occurred in 2026. Names are reported under the date of death, in alphabetical order. A typical entry reports information in the following sequence: Name, age, country of citizenship at birth and subsequent nationality (if applicable), what subject was noted for, and reference.