Title: Mako (actor)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mako_(actor)
Excerpt: Makoto Iwamatsu (岩松 信, Iwamatsu Makoto; December 10, 1933 – July 21, 2006) was a Japanese-American actor, credited mononymously in almost all of his acting roles as simply Mako (マコ;  MAH-koh). His career in film, on television, and on stage spanned five decades and 165 productions. He was nominated for an Academy Award, Golden Globe Award, and a Tony Award.
Born and raised in Kobe, Mako moved to the United States after the Second World War, where his dissident parents had moved to escape political persecution. After serving with the U.S. Army during the Korean War, he trained in acting at the Pasadena Playhouse and later co-founded the East West Players. His role as Po-Han (his second credited role on film) in the 1966 film The Sand Pebbles saw him nominated for the Academy Award and the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor.
His other various roles included Kichijiro in the 1971 film adaptation of Silence, Oomiak "The Fearless One" in The Island at the Top of the World (1974), Akiro the Wizard in Conan the Barbarian (1982) and Conan the Destroyer (1984), and Kungo Tsarong in Seven Years in Tibet (1997). He was part of the original cast of Stephen Sondheim's 1976 Broadway musical Pacific Overtures, which earned him a Tony Award nomination for Best Actor in a Musical. Later in his career, he became well known for his voice-acting roles, including Mr. Yamaguchi in Rugrats in Paris: The Movie, Aku in the first four seasons of Samurai Jack (2001–04), and Iroh in the first two seasons of Avatar: The Last Airbender (2005–06).
He died on July 21, 2006, at the age of 72 from esophageal cancer.

Title: Splinter (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Splinter_(Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles)
Excerpt: Splinter, often referred to as Master Splinter or Sensei by his students/sons, is a fictional character from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles comics and all related media. A mutant rat, he is the grave and stoic sage of the Turtles, their ninjutsu and martial arts instructor, and their adoptive father.
The character was originally a parody of the Marvel Comics character Stick.

Title: Greg Cipes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greg_Cipes
Excerpt: Greg Cipes (born January 4, 1980) is an American actor. He is best known for his voice roles as Beast Boy in Teen Titans, Teen Titans Go!, Young Justice, and Beast Boy: Lone Wolf; Michelangelo in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2012) and Kevin Levin in the Ben 10 franchise (beginning with Ben 10: Alien Force). He has made appearances on television series including Gilmore Girls, Deadwood, and Roseanne's Nuts. From 2009 to 2018, he appeared in a recurring role as Chuck in the ABC television series The Middle. His film career includes playing the character Dwight Mueller in Fast & Furious, Reed in National Lampoon's Pledge This!, and Sam in Vile.

Title: Gal Gadot
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gal_Gadot
Excerpt: Gal Gadot (Hebrew: גל גדות, pronounced [ˈɡal ɡaˈdot]; born 30 April 1985) is an Israeli actress. She gained recognition for portraying Wonder Woman in the DC Extended Universe films (2016–2023). In 2018, Gadot was named one of Time's 100 most influential people in the world and ranked by Forbes as the tenth–highest-paid actress, later rising to third-highest in 2020. In 2025, she became the first Israeli actor to receive a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Gadot grew up in Rosh HaAyin and first gained attention locally after winning Miss Israel 2004, followed by two years of mandatory service in the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) as a combat trainer. During this time, she participated in a Maxim photo shoot that boosted her public profile, leading her to begin modeling and endorsing various brands. Shortly after, she made her television debut in the Israeli drama Bubot in 2008, followed by her film debut in a supporting role as Gisele Yashar in Fast & Furious (2009), reprising it in multiple sequels (2011–2023). She also appeared on Israeli television in the second season of Asfur (2010–2012) and later in Kathmandu (2012).
Gadot first portrayed Wonder Woman in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016). The success of the film led to her starring in Wonder Woman (2017), which became a major box office hit. She reprised the role again in Justice League (2017) and Wonder Woman 1984 (2020), the latter of which she co-produced. Since then, she has starred in Red Notice (2021), Death on the Nile (2022), and Heart of Stone (2023), which she co-produced. In 2025 she portrayed the Evil Queen in Snow White and Gemma Donati in In the Hand of Dante.
Beyond acting, Gadot and her husband have co-founded a film production company, launched a food brand, and invested in Israeli startups. Gadot is widely celebrated in Israel as a national icon and ambassador and has been honored by various Jewish and Zionist organizations for her effect on Israel's image, including the Israeli-American Council (IAC), Anti-Defamation League (ADL), Jerusalem Film Festival, and Hadassah. She has also been awarded a Genesis Prize. Her support for the Israeli military and for hostages held in the Gaza Strip has drawn criticism from Palestinian nationalists, as well as from some pro-Israeli nationalists who argue she has not shown strong support.

Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles in film
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_in_film
Excerpt: The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, a superhero team created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird, have appeared in seven theatrical feature-length films since their debut. The first film was released in 1990, at the height of the franchise's popularity. Despite mixed reviews from critics, it was a commercial success that garnered two direct sequels, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze in 1991 and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III in 1993, both of which were modest successes.  An animated film titled TMNT was released in 2007.
Following the purchase of the Turtles franchise by Viacom in 2009, Paramount Pictures gained the exclusive theatrical film rights. The studio's first film which served as a reboot of the series was released in 2014. A sequel, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows, was released in 2016 and was the first film in the franchise to be considered financially unsuccessful. An animated reboot film, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem was released in 2023. The seven films have grossed $1.3 billion worldwide.