Title: Texas A&M University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_A%26M_University
Excerpt: Texas A&M University (Texas A&M, A&M, TA&M, or TAMU) is a public land-grant research university in College Station, Texas, United States. It was founded in 1876 and became the flagship institution of the Texas A&M University System in 1948. Since 2021, Texas A&M has enrolled the largest student body in the United States.  It is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity" and since 2001 has been a member of the Association of American Universities.
The university was the first public higher education institution in Texas; it opened for classes on October 4, 1876, as the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas (A.M.C.) under the provisions of the 1862 Morrill Land-Grant Act. In the following decades, the college grew in size and scope, expanding to its largest enrollment during WWII before its first significant stagnation in enrollment post-war. Enrollment grew again in the 1960s under the leadership of President James Earl Rudder, during whose tenure the college desegregated, became coeducational, and ended the requirement for participation in the Corps of Cadets. In 1963, to reflect the institution's expanded roles and academic offerings, the Texas Legislature renamed the college Texas A&M University; the letters "A&M" were retained as a tribute to the university's former designation.
The university's main campus spans over 5,500 acres (22 km2) and includes the George H. W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum. The university offers degrees in more than 130 courses of study through 18 colleges and houses 21 research institutes. As a senior military college, Texas A&M is one of six American universities classed as such and has a full-time, volunteer Cadet Corps whose members study alongside civilian undergraduate students. About one-fifth of the student body lives on campus. Texas A&M has more than 1,000 officially recognized student organizations. The university's students, alumni, and sports teams are known as Aggies. Its athletes compete in eighteen varsity sports as a member of the Southeastern Conference.

Title: University of California, Berkeley
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California,_Berkeley
Excerpt: The University of California, Berkeley (UC Berkeley, Berkeley, Cal, or California) is a public land-grant research university in Berkeley, California, United States. Founded in 1868 and named after the Anglo-Irish philosopher George Berkeley, it is the state's first land-grant university and the founding campus of the University of California system.
Berkeley has an enrollment of more than 45,000 students. The university is organized around fifteen schools of study on the same campus, including the College of Chemistry, the College of Engineering, College of Letters and Science, and the Haas School of Business. It is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity". Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory was originally founded as part of the university.
Berkeley was a founding member of the Association of American Universities and was one of the original eight "Public Ivy" schools. In 2021, the federal funding for campus research and development exceeded $1 billion. Thirty-two libraries also compose the Berkeley library system which is the sixth largest research library by number of volumes held in the United States.
Berkeley students compete in thirty varsity athletic sports, and the university is one of eighteen full-member institutions in the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC). Berkeley's athletic teams, the California Golden Bears, have also won 107 national championships, 196 individual national titles, and 223 Olympic medals (including 121 gold). Berkeley's alumni, faculty, and researchers include 63 Nobel laureates and 19 Academy Award winners, and the university is also a producer of Rhodes Scholars, Marshall Scholars, and Fulbright Scholars.

Title: Virginia Tech
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virginia_Tech
Excerpt: The Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, commonly referred to as Virginia Tech (VT), is a public land-grant research university with its main campus in Blacksburg, Virginia, United States. It was founded as the Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College in 1872.
The university also has educational facilities in six regions statewide, a research center in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, and a study-abroad site in Riva San Vitale, Switzerland. Through its Corps of Cadets ROTC program, Virginia Tech is a senior military college.
Virginia Tech offers 280 undergraduate and graduate degree programs to its over 38,000 students; as of 2016, it was the state's second-largest public university by enrollment. It is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research spending and doctorate production".
The university's athletic teams are the Virginia Tech Hokies and compete in Division I of the NCAA as members of the Atlantic Coast Conference.

Title: Korea University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Korea_University
Excerpt: Korea University (KU, Korean: 고려대학교; RR: Goryeo Daehakgyo) is a private research university in Seoul, South Korea. Korea University also maintains a satellite campus in Sejong City. Established in 1905 as Bosung College by Lee Yong-Ik, a prominent official of the Korean Empire, Korea University is among South Korea's oldest institutions of higher education, and is the nation's first modern private university. It is named after Goguryeo, an ancient Korean kingdom. Korea University is one of the three most prestigious universities in the country, part of a group referred to as SKY universities.
The student body consists of over 28,000 undergraduate students and over 11,000 graduate students. Korea University offers programs in fields such as liberal arts, social sciences, business & economics, and engineering. It has 81 departments in 19 colleges and divisions. It is composed of twenty-two graduate schools as well as eighteen undergraduate schools and colleges. There are eleven auxiliary facilities, including libraries, a museum, and a press office for public relations. It has over 1,500 full-time faculty members with over 95% of them holding Ph.D. or equivalent qualification in their field. The university has produced more than 350,000 graduates, while The Korea University Alumni Association comprises more than 280,000 members.
Korea University's collegiate athletic teams, known as the KU Tigers, compete in the U-League, South Korea's collegiate athletic association, and have been one the most successful programs in college athletics. The university operates multiple athletic clubs and fields teams in sports such as basketball, association football, American football, ice hockey, baseball, and rugby, many of which have origins dating back to the early 20th century. The KU Tiger teams have won multiple national championships across a variety of sports, including basketball, baseball, and association football.

Title: Gaza war protests at Columbia University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaza_war_protests_at_Columbia_University
Excerpt: During the Gaza war and genocide, Columbia University in New York City has been the site of student activism—including a series of protests, encampments, and occupations—in solidarity with the Palestinians of Gaza and against what student protesters have called the university's complicity in the genocide. The main demand of the Gaza solidarity protest movement at Columbia was that the university disinvest from Israel. The university's administration and the federal government have sought to repress the protests, which they have called antisemitic. In 2025, the university became a focus of President Donald Trump, whose administration, citing what it called widespread antisemitism at Columbia, cut $400 million in funding to Columbia and issued a list of demands, detained and attempted to deport Mahmoud Khalil and Mohsen Mahdawi, and investigated Columbia for Title VI violations. In a settlement with the Trump administration, the Trustees of Columbia University agreed to pay over $200 million, adopt the IHRA definition of antisemitism, and accept other demands.
That protest, jointly organized by Columbia's chapters of Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP) and Jewish Voice for Peace (JVP), demanded that Columbia address Palestinian humanity, disinvest from Israel, cancel the CU Tel Aviv Global Center, and stop the dual degree program with Tel Aviv University. Columbia's administration adjusted its protest policies and, on November 10, suspended SJP and JVP for organizing an "unauthorized" walkout. At a November 14 rally, a coalition of 80+ student groups was announced as Columbia University Apartheid Divest (CUAD), which continued to organize protest activity with six demands, including that Columbia institutionally call for an immediate ceasefire, divestment from companies profiting from Israeli apartheid, and end its vilification of pro-Palestinian activism.
On April 17, 2024, Columbia students established the Gaza Solidarity Encampment on the East Butler Lawn. The next day, Columbia President Minouche Shafik called in the New York City Police Department (NYPD) to arrest them en masse—the first time Columbia allowed police to suppress campus protests since the 1968 demonstrations against the Vietnam War. Shortly after the mass arrest and dismantling of the initial camp, other students autonomously occupied the adjacent lawn and established another encampment there, holding it for several days as students negotiated with the administration. The Columbia encampments encouraged other actions at multiple universities and led to the proliferation of Palestine solidarity encampments at over 180 universities around the world.
On April 29, after Shafik announced the end of negotiations and said Columbia "will not divest from Israel", protesters occupied Hamilton Hall, calling it Hind's Hall in honor of Hind Rajab. After less than 24 hours, the NYPD was summoned again. Hundreds of NYPD officers broke into and cleared the hall, arrested more than 100 protesters, and fully dismantled the camp. On May 31, a third campus encampment was briefly established in response to an alumni reunion.
When Shafik announced her resignation as president on August 14, 2024, Katrina Armstrong, then CEO of the Columbia University Irving Medical Center and dean of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, became interim president. After the Trump administration's $400 million funding cut, Armstrong stepped down and Claire Shipman, then co-chair of the board of trustees, became acting president. Shortly thereafter, Shipman announced a review of the Columbia University Senate.
Several allegations of antisemitic incidents were made with regard to the protests. Organizers repeatedly denounced antisemitism and affirmed that there was no room for it or "any form of racism" in the movement. Columbia affiliates, including Jewish students and professors, challenged attempts to characterize Palestine solidarity at Columbia as antisemitic—including characterizations and pronouncements made by the federal government and Columbia's Task Force on Antisemitism—describing such attempts as conflating opposition to Zionism with antisemitism and exploiting the accusation of antisemitism to repress Palestine solidarity as well as academic freedom and freedom of expression.