Title: United States Virgin Islands
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Virgin_Islands
Excerpt: The United States Virgin Islands, officially the Virgin Islands of the United States, is a Caribbean unincorporated territory of the United States. The islands are geographically part of the Virgin Islands archipelago and are located in the Leeward Islands of the Lesser Antilles.  The islands have a tropical climate.
The U.S. Virgin Islands consist of the main islands of Saint Croix, Saint John, and Saint Thomas and 50 other surrounding minor islands and cays. The total land area of the territory is 133.73 square miles (346.36 km2). The territory's capital is Charlotte Amalie on the island of St. Thomas.
Previously known as the Danish West Indies, controlled by Denmark–Norway (from 1754 to 1814) and the Kingdom of Denmark (from 1814 to 1917), they were sold to the United States by Denmark for $25 million ($628 million in 2025) in the 1917 Treaty of the Danish West Indies  and have since been an organized, unincorporated United States territory. The U.S. Virgin Islands are organized under the 1954 Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands and have held five constitutional conventions. Like other territories of the United States, the U.S. Virgin Islands elects a delegate who can participate in debates in the House of Representatives but cannot vote.
The primary economic activities on the islands are tourism and services.

Title: Saint Croix
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saint_Croix
Excerpt: Saint Croix ( KROY; Spanish: Santa Cruz; Dutch: Sint-Kruis; French: Sainte-Croix; Danish and Norwegian: Sankt Croix; Taino: Ay Ay) is an island in the Caribbean, and a county and constituent district of the United States Virgin Islands (USVI), an unincorporated territory of the United States.
St. Croix is the largest of the territory's islands. As of the 2020 U.S. census, its population was 41,004. The island's highest point is Mount Eagle, at 355 meters (1,165 ft). St. Croix's nickname is "Twin City", for its two towns, Frederiksted on the western end and Christiansted on the northeast part of the island.

Title: War on drugs
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/War_on_drugs
Excerpt: The war on drugs, sometimes referred to in the 21st century as the war on cartels in contexts of military intervention and counterterrorism, is a global anti-narcotics campaign led by the United States federal government, ramped up after 9/11, including drug prohibition and foreign assistance, with the aim of reducing the illegal drug trade in the US. The initiative's efforts includes policies intended to discourage the production, distribution, and consumption of psychoactive drugs that the participating governments, through United Nations treaties, have made illegal.
The term "war on drugs" was popularized by the media after a press conference, given on June 17, 1971, during which President Richard Nixon declared drug abuse "public enemy number one". Earlier that day, Nixon had presented a special message to the US Congress on "Drug Abuse Prevention and Control", which included text about devoting more federal resources to the "prevention of new addicts, and the rehabilitation of those who are addicted"; that aspect did not receive the same media attention as the term "war on drugs".
In the years since, presidential administrations and Congress have generally maintained or expanded Nixon's original initiatives, with the emphasis on law enforcement and interdiction over public health and treatment. Cannabis presents a special case; it came under federal restriction in the 1930s, and since 1970 has been classified as having a high potential for abuse and no medical value, with the same level of prohibition as heroin. Multiple mainstream studies and findings since the 1930s have recommended against such a severe classification. Beginning in the 1990s, cannabis has been legalized for medical use in 39 states, and also for recreational use in 24, creating a policy gap with federal law and non-compliance with the UN drug treaties.
In June 2011, the Global Commission on Drug Policy released a critical report, declaring: "The global war on drugs has failed, with devastating consequences for individuals and societies around the world." In 2023, the UN high commissioner for human rights stated that "decades of punitive, 'war on drugs' strategies had failed to prevent an increasing range and quantity of substances from being produced and consumed." That year, the annual US federal drug war budget reached $39 billion, with cumulative spending since 1971 estimated at $1 trillion.
On January 3, 2026, the United States launched a large-scale military operation (Operation Absolute Resolve), capturing Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro and his wife, Cilia Flores, who face federal charges (United States v. Carvajal-Barrios) including narcoterrorism and cocaine trafficking.