Title: Ricin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ricin
Excerpt: Ricin ( RY-sin) is a lectin (a carbohydrate-binding protein) and a highly potent toxin produced in the seeds of the castor plant, Ricinus communis. The median lethal dose (LD50) of ricin for mice is around 22 micrograms per kilogram of body mass via intraperitoneal injection. Oral exposure to ricin is far less toxic. An estimated lethal oral dose in humans is approximately one milligram per 2 kilogram of body mass.
Ricin is a toxalbumin and was first discovered by Peter Hermann Stillmark, the founder of lectinology. Ricin is chemically similar to robin.

Title: Α-Amanitin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%CE%91-Amanitin
Excerpt: α-Amanitin (alpha-Amanitin) is a cyclic peptide of eight amino acids. It is possibly the most deadly of all the amatoxins, toxins found in several species of the mushroom genus Amanita, one being the death cap (Amanita phalloides) as well as the destroying angel, a complex of similar species, principally A. virosa and A. bisporigera.  It is also found in the mushrooms Galerina marginata, Lepiota subincarnata and Conocybe rugosa. The oral LD50 of amanitin is 100 μg/kg for rats.
Amatoxins (and phallotoxins) are part of the RiPP class of natural products. The genes encoding the proprotein for α-amanitin belong to the same family as those that encode for phallacidin (a phallotoxin).

Title: Neurotoxin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neurotoxin
Excerpt: Neurotoxins are toxins that are destructive to nerve tissue (causing neurotoxicity). Neurotoxins are an extensive class of exogenous chemical neurological insults that can adversely affect function in both developing and mature nervous tissue. The term can also be used to classify endogenous compounds, which, when abnormally contacted, can prove neurologically toxic. Though neurotoxins are often neurologically destructive, their ability to specifically target neural components is important in the study of nervous systems. Common examples of neurotoxins include lead, ethanol (drinking alcohol), glutamate, nitric oxide, botulinum toxin (e.g. Botox), tetanus toxin, and tetrodotoxin. Some substances such as nitric oxide and glutamate are in fact essential for proper function of the body and only exert neurotoxic effects at excessive concentrations.
Neurotoxins inhibit neuron control over ion concentrations across the cell membrane, or communication between neurons across a synapse. Local pathology of neurotoxin exposure often includes neuron excitotoxicity or apoptosis but can also include glial cell damage. Macroscopic manifestations of neurotoxin exposure can include widespread central nervous system damage such as intellectual disability, persistent memory impairments, epilepsy, and dementia. Additionally, neurotoxin-mediated peripheral nervous system damage such as neuropathy or myopathy is common. Support has been shown for a number of treatments aimed at attenuating neurotoxin-mediated injury, such as antioxidant and antitoxin administration.

Title: Clostridium perfringens
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clostridium_perfringens
Excerpt: Clostridium perfringens is a Gram-positive, bacillus (rod-shaped), anaerobic, spore-forming pathogenic bacterium of the genus Clostridium. C. perfringens is present in nature and can be found as a normal component of decaying vegetation, marine sediment, the intestinal tract of humans and other vertebrates, insects, and soil. It has the shortest reported generation time of any organism at 6.3 minutes in thioglycolate medium. C. perfringens was discovered in 1891 by William H. Welch. It was originally known as Bacillus aerogenes capsulatus, followed by Bacillus welchii, before the final establishment of its current name. 
Clostridium perfringens is one of the most common causes of food poisoning in the United States, alongside norovirus, Salmonella, Campylobacter, and Staphylococcus aureus. However, it can sometimes be ingested and cause no harm.
Infections induced by C. perfringens are associated with tissue necrosis, bacteremia, emphysematous cholecystitis, and gas gangrene, which is also known as clostridial myonecrosis. The specific name, perfringens, is derived from the Latin per (meaning "through") and frango ("burst"), referring to the disruption of tissue that occurs during gas gangrene. Gas gangrene is caused by alpha toxin, or α-toxin, that embeds itself into the plasma membrane of cells and disrupts normal cellular function by altering membrane structure. Research suggests that C. perfringens is capable of engaging in polymicrobial anaerobic infections. It is commonly encountered in infections as a component of the normal flora. In this case, its role in disease is minor.
C. perfringens toxins are a result of horizontal gene transfer of a neighboring cell's plasmids. Shifts in genomic make-up are common for this species of bacterium and contribute to novel pathogenesis. Major toxins are expressed differently in certain populations of C. perfringens; these populations are organized into strains based on their expressed toxins. This especially impacts the food industry, as controlling this microbe is important for preventing foodborne illness. Novel findings in C. perfringens hyper-motility, which was provisionally thought as non-motile, have been discovered as well. Findings in metabolic processes reveal more information concerning C. perfringens pathogenic nature.

Title: Samandarin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samandarin
Excerpt: Samandarin or Samandarine is the main steroidal alkaloid secreted by the fire salamander (Salamandra salamandra). The compound is extremely toxic (LD50 = 70 μg/kg in mice). Poisoning can cause convulsions, respiratory paralysis, and eventual death. Samandarin is also believed to be the active ingredient in Salamander brandy, a Slovenian traditional medicinal alcoholic drink with purported hallucinogenic and aphrodisiac effects.