Title: Battle of Trafalgar
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Trafalgar
Excerpt: The Battle of Trafalgar was a fleet action which took place on 21 October 1805 between the Royal Navy and a combined fleet of the French and Spanish navies during the War of the Third Coalition. As part of Napoleon's planned invasion of the United Kingdom, the French and Spanish navies planned to take control of the English Channel and provide the French invasion army with safe passage to Britain. The allied fleet, under the command of French Vice-admiral Pierre-Charles Villeneuve, sailed from the port of Cádiz in southern Spain on 18 October 1805. It encountered a British fleet under Vice-Admiral of the White Horatio Nelson, 1st Viscount Nelson in the Atlantic Ocean along the southwest coast of Spain off Cape Trafalgar.
Nelson's fleet was outnumbered, having only 27 ships of the line to the 33 of Villeneuve's fleet which included the largest warship in either fleet, the Spanish ship of the line Santísima Trinidad. To address this imbalance, Nelson sailed his fleet directly at the allied battle line's flank in two columns, hoping to break the line into pieces. Villeneuve had worried that Nelson might attempt this tactic, but for various reasons, failed to prepare for it. The crews of the French and Spanish ships were also inexperienced and poorly trained. The British plan worked almost perfectly; Nelson's columns split the Franco-Spanish fleet in three, isolating the rear from Villeneuve's flagship, Bucentaure. The allied vanguard sailed ahead while attempting to turn back, leaving the British temporarily superior in number against the remainder of the allied fleet. In the battle that followed, 18 allied ships were captured or destroyed, while the British lost none.
The offensive exposed the leading British ships to intense crossfire as they approached the Franco-Spanish lines. Nelson's own HMS Victory led the front column and was almost knocked out of action. Nelson was shot by a French musketeer during the battle, and died shortly before it ended. Villeneuve was captured along with his flagship Bucentaure. He later attended Nelson's state funeral while a captive on parole in Britain. After the battle, the senior surviving Spanish commander, Admiral Federico Gravina, led part of the surviving Franco-Spanish fleet away from the storm; he died six months later of wounds sustained during the battle.
Nelson's victory against the odds and death during battle secured his place as a British national hero. His signal to the fleet shortly before the battle, "England expects that every man will do his duty", is regularly quoted and paraphrased. The victory confirmed Britain's naval supremacy and was achieved in part through Nelson's departure from prevailing naval tactical orthodoxy. Although the battle led to the definitive end of French plans to invade Britain, it had a limited impact on the War of the Third Coalition, which ended a few months later in defeat for Britain and her allies. The Napoleonic Wars would continue for another decade.

Title: Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saipan,_Northern_Mariana_Islands
Excerpt: Saipan () is the largest island and capital of the Northern Mariana Islands, an unincorporated territory of the United States in the western Pacific Ocean. According to 2020 estimates by the United States Census Bureau, the population of Saipan was 43,385. Its people have been United States citizens since the 1980s. Saipan is one of the main homes of the Chamorro and the Carolinian, the indigenous people of the Mariana Islands.
From the 17th century, the island experienced Spanish occupation and rule until the Spanish–American War of 1898, when Saipan was briefly occupied by the United States, before being formally sold to Germany. About 15 years of German rule were followed by 30 years of Japanese rule, which was ended by the Battle of Saipan, as the United States began to take control of the Philippine Sea. Following World War II, Saipan became part of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and was administered by the United States, along with the rest of the Northern Marianas. In 1978, Saipan formally joined the United States as part of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Today, Saipan is home to about 90% of the population of the Northern Mariana Islands. It hosts many resorts, golf courses, beaches, nature sites, and World War II historical sites. The legislative and executive branches of Commonwealth government are located in the village of Capitol Hill on the island, while the judicial branch is headquartered in the village of Susupe. Since the entire island is organized as a single municipality, most publications designate Saipan as the Commonwealth's capital. As of 2025, Saipan's mayor is Ramon Camacho and the governor of the Northern Mariana Islands is David M. Apatang.
Saipan was hit by Super Typhoon Yutu in 2018, which caused widespread damage. It was previously hit in 2015 by Super Typhoon Soudelor, causing extensive damage to houses and commercial property.

Title: USS Saipan (LHA-2)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USS_Saipan_(LHA-2)
Excerpt: USS Saipan (LHA-2) was a Tarawa-class amphibious assault ship, the second United States Navy ship named in honor of the World War II Battle of Saipan. Commissioned in 1977, the ship saw service until 2007 when she was decommissioned. In 2009 the ship was sold for scrapping.

Title: Battle of Saipan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Saipan
Excerpt: The Battle of Saipan was an amphibious assault launched by the United States against the Empire of Japan during the Pacific campaign of World War II between 15 June and 9 July 1944. The initial invasion triggered the Battle of the Philippine Sea, which effectively destroyed Japanese carrier-based airpower, and the battle resulted in the American capture of the island. Its occupation put the major cities of the Japanese home islands within the range of B-29 bombers, making them vulnerable to strategic bombing by the United States Army Air Forces. It also precipitated the resignation of Hideki Tōjō, the prime minister of Japan.
Saipan was the first objective in Operation Forager, the campaign to occupy the Mariana Islands that got underway at the same time the Allies were invading France in Operation Overlord. After a two-day naval bombardment, the U.S. 2nd Marine Division, 4th Marine Division, and the Army's 27th Infantry Division, commanded by Lieutenant General Holland Smith, landed on the island and defeated the 43rd Infantry Division of the Imperial Japanese Army, commanded by Lieutenant General Yoshitsugu Saitō. Organized resistance ended when at least 3,000 Japanese soldiers died in a mass gyokusai attack, and afterward about 1,000 civilians committed suicide.
The capture of Saipan pierced the Japanese inner defense perimeter, and forced the Japanese government to inform its citizens for the first time that the war was not going well. The battle claimed more than 46,000 military casualties and at least 8,000 civilian deaths. The high percentage of casualties suffered during the battle influenced American planning for future assaults, including the projected invasion of Japan.

Title: 2nd Battalion, 25th Marines
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2nd_Battalion,_25th_Marines
Excerpt: The 2nd Battalion, 25th Marines (2/25) is a reserve infantry battalion in the United States Marine Corps.
Headquartered in Brooklyn, New York, it has units located throughout the Mid-Atlantic States. It consists of approximately 1,000 Marines and sailors under the command of the 25th Marine Regiment and the 4th Marine Division.