Title: Kashmiri cuisine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kashmiri_cuisine
Excerpt: Kashmiri cuisine is the traditional culinary practices of the Kashmiri people. Rice has been a staple food in Kashmir since ancient times. The equivalent for the phrase "bread and butter" in the Kashmiri language is haakh-batte (greens and rice).
Kashmiri cuisine is generally meat-heavy. The region has, per capita, the highest mutton consumers in the Indian Subcontinent. Lamb or sheep is the preferred choice of meat amongst Pandits, whereas Muslims prefer goats. 
In a majority of Kashmiri cooking, bread is not part of the meal. Bread is generally only eaten with tea in the morning, afternoon and evening. The cooking methods of vegetables, mutton, homemade cheese (paneer), and legumes by Muslims are similar to those of Pandits, except in the use of onions, garlic and shallots by Muslims in place of asafoetida. Cockscomb flower, called "mawal" in Kashmiri, is boiled to prepare a red food colouring, as used in certain dishes mostly in Wazwan. Kashmiri Pandit cuisine uses the mildly pungent Kashmiri red chili powder as a spice, as well as ratanjot to impart colour to certain dishes like rogan josh. Kashmiri Muslim cuisine uses chilies in moderate quantity, and avoid hot dishes at large meals. In Kashmiri Muslim cuisine, vegetable curries are common with meat traditionally considered an expensive indulgence. Wazwan dishes with rice, some vegetables and salad are prepared for weddings and special occasions like Eid.

Title: C. elegans (disambiguation)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C._elegans_(disambiguation)
Excerpt: C. elegans most commonly refers to the model round worm Caenorhabditis elegans. It may also refer to any of the species below. They are listed, first in taxonomic order (including synonyms) and, second, alphabetically.

Title: List of plant genus names with etymologies (A–C)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_plant_genus_names_with_etymologies_(A%E2%80%93C)
Excerpt: Since the first printing of Carl Linnaeus's Species Plantarum in 1753, plants have been assigned one epithet or name for their species and one name for their genus, a grouping of related species. Many of these plants are listed in Stearn's Dictionary of Plant Names for Gardeners. William Stearn (1911–2001) was one of the pre-eminent British botanists of the 20th century: a Librarian of the Royal Horticultural Society, a president of the Linnean Society and the original drafter of the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants.
The first column below contains seed-bearing genera from Stearn and other sources as listed, excluding those names that no longer appear in more modern works, such as Plants of the World by Maarten J. M. Christenhusz (lead author), Michael F. Fay and Mark W. Chase. Plants of the World is also used for the family and order classification for each genus. The second column gives a meaning or derivation of the word, such as a language of origin. The last two columns indicate additional citations.

Title: List of plant family names with etymologies
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_plant_family_names_with_etymologies
Excerpt: Since the first edition of Carl Linnaeus's Species Plantarum in 1753, plants have been assigned one epithet or name for their species and one name for their genus, a grouping of related species. Related genera are in turn grouped into families. Each family's formal name ends in the Latin suffix -aceae and is derived from the name of a genus that is or once was part of the family.
The table below contains seed-bearing families from Plants of the World by Maarten J. M. Christenhusz (lead author), Michael F. Fay and Mark W. Chase, with two updated families from Plants of the World Online. The second column gives the family's original type genus, unless that name is no longer accepted in taxonomic databases. The fourth column gives an associated meaning, derivation or person.