Title: William the Lion
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_the_Lion
Excerpt: William the Lion (Scottish Gaelic: Uilleam an Leòmhann), sometimes styled William I (Uilleam MacEanraig; Medieval Gaelic: Uilliam mac Eanric) and also known by the nickname Garbh, 'the Rough' (c. 1142 – 4 December 1214), reigned as King of Alba from 1165 to 1214. His almost 49-year-long reign was the longest for a Scottish monarch before the Union of the Crowns in 1603.

Title: Billy Boyd
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Billy_Boyd
Excerpt: William Nathan Boyd (born 28 August 1968) is a Scottish actor and musician. He played Peregrin "Pippin" Took in Peter Jackson's epic film trilogy The Lord of the Rings (2001–2003), Barret Bonden in Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World (2003) and Glen and Glenda (later G.G. Valentine) in the Child's Play film Seed of Chucky (2004) and second season of the television series Chucky (2022).

Title: William Boyd
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Boyd
Excerpt: William, Willie, Will or Bill Boyd may refer to:

Title: William Boyd (writer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Boyd_(writer)
Excerpt: William Andrew Murray Boyd  (born 7 March 1952) is a Scottish novelist, short story writer, screenwriter, and film director. He is best known for his novels, which include  A Good Man in Africa (1981), Any Human Heart (2002), and  Restless (2006), many of which have received critical acclaim and literary awards. Boyd has also written screenplays for film and television, including Chaplin (1992), and directed the World War I drama  The Trench (1999). 
His work is characterised by its narrative vitality and range, earning him numerous accolades including the Whitbread First Novel Award, the James Tait Black Memorial Prize, and the Costa Book Award. A number of his works are what he describes as "whole-life" novels which follow a protagonist through the highs and lows of a varied and often remarkable life. He regularly fuses fact with fiction and his lead characters encounter well-known historical figures. He was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2005 for services to literature. John Self, writing for The Booker Prizes, described Boyd’s work as “vigorous, entertaining novels” produced by an “exceptionally fertile imagination,” and praised his fiction as “fully committed to his stories and characters.”

Title: Boyd (surname)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boyd_(surname)
Excerpt: Boyd is an ancient Scottish surname.
The name is attached to Simon, one of several brothers and children of Alan, son of Flathald. Simon's son Robert was called Boyt or Boyd from the Celtic term boidhe, meaning fair or yellow. Robert the Bruce granted lands to Sir Robert Boyd as the ancestor of the earls of Kilmarnock. The Scottish peerage of the earls of Kilmarnock ends shortly after William Boyd rebelled in the Battle of Culloden in 1746. William was arrested and executed at the Tower of London in 1746. He left a widow and three sons including James, Lord Boyd who married and succeeded his father as the Earl of Errol, taking his mother's title.  
Another theory is of territorial origins which may have been taken from the Bhoid, the Gaelic term for the island of Bute, in the Firth of Clyde. The surname was common in Edinburgh in the 17th century. The Scottish Gaelic form of the surname is Boid (masculine), and Bhoid (feminine).