Title: Online dating
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_dating
Excerpt: Online dating, also known as internet dating, virtual dating, or mobile app dating, is a method used by people with a goal of searching for and interacting with potential romantic or sexual partners, via the internet. An online dating service is a company that promotes and provides specific mechanisms for the practice of online dating, generally in the form of dedicated websites or software applications accessible on personal computers or mobile devices connected to the internet. A wide variety of unmoderated matchmaking services, most of which are profile-based with various communication functionalities, is offered by such companies.
Online dating services allow users to become "members" by creating a profile and uploading personal information including (but not limited to) age, gender, sexual orientation, location, and appearance. Most services also encourage members to add photos or videos to their profile. Once a profile has been created, members can view the profiles of other members of the service, using the visible profile information to decide whether or not to initiate contact. Most services offer digital messaging, while others provide additional services such as webcasts, online chat, telephone chat (VoIP), and message boards. Members can constrain their interactions to the online space, or they can arrange a date to meet in person.
A great diversity of online dating services currently exist. Some have a broad membership base of diverse users looking for many different types of relationships. Other sites target highly specific demographics based on features like shared interests, location, religion, sexual orientation or relationship type. Online dating services also differ widely in their revenue streams. Some sites are completely free and depend on advertising for revenue. Others utilize the freemium revenue model, offering free registration and use, with optional, paid, premium services. Still others rely solely on paid membership subscriptions.

Title: Wings (1990 TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wings_(1990_TV_series)
Excerpt: Wings is an American television sitcom that ran for eight seasons on NBC from April 19, 1990, to May 21, 1997, for a total of 172 episodes.
The show is set at the fictional "Tom Nevers Field" airport, a small two-airline airport in Nantucket, Massachusetts (not to be confused with the actual Nantucket Memorial Airport), where brothers and pilots Joe and Brian Hackett operate Sandpiper Air, a single-plane airline. The majority of the episodes are set in the airport.
Tim Daly and Steven Weber star as Joe and Brian. Crystal Bernard plays Helen, their friend since childhood and later Joe's love interest and wife, who runs the airport's lunch counter but dreams of becoming a concert cellist. David Schramm plays Roy Biggins, who runs a competing airline, Aeromass. Rebecca Schull plays Fay, Joe and Brian's employee at Sandpiper Air. Thomas Haden Church portrayed the mechanic Lowell in the first six seasons, Tony Shalhoub was taxi driver Antonio from season 3 onward, and Farrah Forke was Brian's love interest, Alex, during seasons 4 and 5. Amy Yasbeck played Helen's sister, Casey, from season 6 through the show's end in season 8. Brian Haley briefly played the mechanic Budd, Lowell's replacement, in season 7.
The show serves as the second spin-off of the sitcom Cheers. Wings was created and produced by Cheers veterans David Angell, Peter Casey, and David Lee. The trio later created the sitcom Frasier, which was also a spin-off of Cheers. Wings exists in the same fictional universe as Cheers, and many characters from Cheers occasionally make special guest appearances on Wings. The series was produced by Grub Street Productions, in association with Paramount Network Television.

Title: Lowell George
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lowell_George
Excerpt: Lowell Thomas George (April 13, 1945 – June 29, 1979) was an American musician, singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, and record producer. He was the primary guitarist, vocalist, and songwriter for the rock band Little Feat. Before forming Little Feat, he was a member of Frank Zappa's band the Mothers of Invention.

Title: Shakedown Street
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shakedown_Street
Excerpt: Shakedown Street is the tenth studio album (fifteenth overall) by rock band the Grateful Dead, released November 8, 1978, by Arista Records. The album came just over a year after previous studio album Terrapin Station. It was the final album for Keith and Donna Jean Godchaux, who left the band a few months after its release. The record was produced by Lowell George (of Little Feat) and John Kahn.

Title: List of 20th-century classical composers
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_20th-century_classical_composers
Excerpt: This is a list of composers of 20th-century classical music, sortable by name, year of birth, year of death, nationality, notable works, and remarks. It includes only composers of significant fame and importance. The style of the composer's music is given where possible, bearing in mind that some defy simple classification. Names are listed first by year of birth, then in alphabetical order within each year. The 20th century is defined by the calendar rather than by any unifying characteristics of musical style or attitude, and is therefore not an era of the same order as the classical or romantic. However, the century can be divided into modern and postmodern eras that overlap and can be defined more by differences in attitude than style.