Title: 1978 Australian Open – Men's singles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1978_Australian_Open_%E2%80%93_Men%27s_singles
Excerpt: Guillermo Vilas defeated John Marks in the final, 6–4, 6–4, 3–6, 6–3 to win the men's singles tennis title at the 1978 Australian Open. It was his first Australian Open title and third major title overall.
Vitas Gerulaitis was the reigning champion, but did not compete this year.
This tournament marked the final major appearance of four-time champion and former world No. 1 Ken Rosewall; he was defeated in the third round by Peter Feigl.

Title: Open Era tennis records – Men's singles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Era_tennis_records_%E2%80%93_Men%27s_singles
Excerpt: The Open Era is the current era of professional tennis. It began in 1968 when the Grand Slam tournaments allowed professional players to compete with amateurs, ending the division that had persisted since the dawn of the sport in the 19th century. The first open tournament was the 1968 British Hard Court Championships held in April, followed by the inaugural open Grand Slam tournament, the 1968 French Open, a month later. Unless otherwise sourced, all records are based on data from the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP), the International Tennis Federation (ITF), and the official websites of the four Grand Slam tournaments. All rankings-related records are based on ATP rankings, which began in 1973. The names of active players appear in boldface.

Last updated 3rd September 2026.

Title: 2022 Australian Open – Men's singles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Australian_Open_%E2%80%93_Men%27s_singles
Excerpt: Rafael Nadal defeated Daniil Medvedev in the final, 2–6, 6–7(5–7), 6–4, 6–4, 7–5 to win the men's singles tennis title at the 2022 Australian Open. It was his second Australian Open title and 21st major singles title overall, surpassing the all-time record he had jointly held with Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic. Nadal became the fourth man, after Roy Emerson, Rod Laver, and Djokovic, to achieve the double career Grand Slam, and the second in the Open Era. He also became the first man in the Open Era to win the Australian Open final after losing the first two sets. This marked the third consecutive year a man trailed by two sets in a major final yet rallied to win, following Djokovic's two-set comeback at the 2021 French Open and Dominic Thiem's at the 2020 US Open. Nadal became the seventh man in the Open Era to come back from two sets down in a major final to win the title.
Djokovic was the three-time reigning champion, but did not compete after his visa was cancelled shortly before the tournament began due to an intervention from Australia's Immigration Minister Alex Hawke, citing risks to public health and good order in Australia. That meant Nadal was the only former champion (2009) to compete in the tournament, with both Federer and Stan Wawrinka sidelined by injury. Djokovic retained the world No. 1 singles ranking despite being unable to defend his points after Medvedev and Alexander Zverev lost in the final and fourth round, respectively.
Matteo Berrettini became the first man born in the 1990s to reach the quarterfinals at all four majors, and the first Italian man to reach the semifinals of the Australian Open.
This also marked Feliciano López’s 79th consecutive grand slam appearance, an Open Era record previously held by Roger Federer. López streak started at the 2002 French Open and concluded 20 years later in Melbourne.

Title: 2023 Australian Open – Men's singles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023_Australian_Open_%E2%80%93_Men%27s_singles
Excerpt: Novak Djokovic defeated Stefanos Tsitsipas in the final, 6–3, 7–6(7–4), 7–6(7–5) to win the men's singles tennis title at the 2023 Australian Open. It was his record-extending tenth Australian Open title and 22nd major men's singles title overall, equaling Rafael Nadal's all-time record. He was the second man to win ten titles at a single major, after Nadal at the French Open. Djokovic extended his match winning-streak at the Australian Open to an Open Era record 28 matches.
Nadal was the defending champion, but lost in the second round to Mackenzie McDonald. This marked the two-time champion, six-time finalist, Olympic gold medalist, and former world No. 1's final Australian Open appearance, as he retired from the sport the following year.
Carlos Alcaraz, Casper Ruud, Tsitsipas and Djokovic were in contention for the world No. 1 singles ranking at the beginning of the tournament. By winning the tournament, Djokovic reclaimed the top spot. Alcaraz, the incumbent world No. 1, withdrew from the tournament due to a right leg injury.
As in the previous major held a few months earlier, neither of the top two seeds advanced to the quarterfinals, with Nadal and Ruud both losing in the second round; this marked the first men's singles major since the 2002 Australian Open where the top two seeds lost prior to the third round. Tsitsipas was the youngest finalist since Djokovic in 2011. Tommy Paul was the first American man to reach the semifinals since Andy Roddick in 2009.
With his win over Thanasi Kokkinakis in the longest match of his career, Andy Murray won a match from two sets down for a record eleventh time.

Title: 2026 Australian Open – Men's singles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Australian_Open_%E2%80%93_Men%27s_singles
Excerpt: Carlos Alcaraz defeated Novak Djokovic in the final, 2–6, 6–2, 6–3, 7–5 to win the men's singles tennis title at the 2026 Australian Open. It was his first Australian Open title and seventh major title overall, becoming the ninth player and youngest man to complete the career Grand Slam in singles (at 22 years, 8 months and 27 days old). He was also the youngest man in the Open Era to reach the singles final of all four majors, and the youngest to win a seventh major title (surpassing Björn Borg). The final was a rematch of the previous year's quarterfinal match, won by Djokovic. With the win, Alcaraz ended Djokovic's unbeaten 10–0 record in Australian Open finals, making Djokovic the fourth man in the Open Era to finish runner-up at all four majors (after Ivan Lendl, Roger Federer, and Andy Murray).
Jannik Sinner was the two-time defending champion, but lost in the semifinals to Djokovic in a rematch of their semifinal match two years prior. Sinner's loss ended his streak of five consecutive major finals, dating back to the 2024 US Open.
At 38 years and 255 days old, Djokovic became the oldest man in history to reach the Australian Open final, and the oldest major finalist overall since Ken Rosewall at the 1974 US Open. By making his 81st career major appearance, he equaled Federer and Feliciano López's joint all-time record for the most total major main draw appearances, and equaled Federer's record 21 Australian Open main draw appearances. With his quarterfinal win, he recorded his 103rd Australian Open match win, breaking Federer's record for most match wins at the Australian Open. Djokovic was also the first man to record over 100 main-draw match wins at three different majors, having also done so at the French Open and Wimbledon Championships.
At 5 hours and 27 minutes long, the semifinal between Alcaraz and Alexander Zverev was the longest Australian Open semifinal (surpassing the 2009 semifinal between Rafael Nadal and Fernando Verdasco), and third-longest overall match in tournament history. Valentin Vacherot became the first Monégasque singles player to reach the third round of a major in the Open Era. Learner Tien was the youngest player to reach the Australian Open quarterfinals since Nick Kyrgios in 2015.
For the first time in the Open Era, and first time since the 32-seed system was introduced at the 2001 Wimbledon Championships, all the players who reached the fourth round at a major were seeded. For the first time in the Open Era, the top six seeds reached the quarterfinals in both the men's and women's singles competitions. This was also the first time since the 2019 French Open that the top four men's seeds all reached the semifinals of a major, and the first such occurrence at the Australian Open since 2013.
The tournament marked the final Australian Open appearance of 2014 champion, three-time major champion, and former world No. 3 Stan Wawrinka; he lost in the third round to Taylor Fritz. At 40 years and 296 days old, Wawrinka was the oldest player to reach the third round of a major since Rosewall at the 1978 Australian Open. His second-round win marked his 58th five-set match, tied with Lendl for the most by any player in the Open Era.