Title: Deportivo de A Coruña
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deportivo_de_A_Coru%C3%B1a
Excerpt: Real Club Deportivo de A Coruña (lit. 'Royal Sporting Club of A Coruña'; spelled as Deportivo da Coruña in Galician), also known as Deportivo La Coruña, RC Deportivo or simply as Deportivo, is a Spanish professional football club based in the city of A Coruña, Galicia, that competes in La Liga, the top tier of Spanish football league system.
Founded in 1906 as Club Deportivo de la Sala Calvet by Federico Fernández-Amor Calvet, Deportivo have won the La Liga title once, in the 1999–2000 season, and finished as runners-up on five occasions. The club have also won the Spanish Cup twice (1994–95 and 2001–02), three Spanish Super Cups (1995, 2000 and 2002), and the now defunct Concurso España (1912). The Blue and Whites were a regular fixture in the top positions of La Liga for the best part of 20 years, from 1992 to 2010, finishing in the top half of the table in 16 out of 19 seasons, and are ranked 12th in the all-time La Liga table. As a result, the club was a regular participant in European competitions, playing in the UEFA Champions League for five consecutive seasons between 2000–01 and 2004–05, reaching the quarter-finals twice and reaching the semi-finals in the 2003–04 season.
Deportivo have played their home games at the 32,490-capacity Riazor since 1944, when the stadium was built. Their traditional home kit consists of blue and white striped shirts with blue shorts and socks. The club has a long-standing rivalry with Celta Vigo, and matches between the two sides are known as the Galician derby.

Title: C.F. Monterrey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C.F._Monterrey
Excerpt: Club de Fútbol Monterrey Rayados, A.C., simplified as CF Monterrey, and also known as Rayados de Monterrey, is a Mexican professional football club based in the Monterrey metropolitan area, Nuevo León. The club competes in Liga MX, the top division of Mexican football, and plays its home matches at Estadio BBVA. Founded in 1945, it is the oldest active professional club from the Northern Mexico, since 1999 the club has been owned by FEMSA. Nicknamed Rayados stems from the club's traditional navy blue striped uniform, which is reflected in the club's crest.
Domestically, CF Monterrey has won five Liga MX titles and three Copa MX titles. Internationally, it has won five CONCACAF Champions League titles and one CONCACAF Cup Winners Cup. The club finished in third place twice in the FIFA Club World Cup (2012 and 2019). In 2020, the club became the second Mexican club to complete the treble after winning the Liga MX, Copa MX and CONCACAF Champions League titles.
The club's oldest and biggest rival is Tigres UANL of the Autonomous University of Nuevo León. The derby between the two, known as the Clásico Regiomontano, is considered to be one of the most heated and intensely competed rivalries in Mexican football; both teams consistently rank among the highest in attendance and regularly feature among the most expensively assembled squads in the country.

Title: Oldest football clubs
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oldest_football_clubs
Excerpt: The oldest football clubs trace their origins to the mid-19th century, a period when football evolved from being a casual pastime to an organised mainstream sport.
The identity of the oldest football clubs in the world, or even in a particular country, is often disputed or claimed by several clubs, across several codes of football. The Gynamstic Society in London, founded in the 18th century, is the earliest recorded society dedicated to football . The Foot-Ball Club of Edinburgh is thought to be the earliest recorded club with football in its name in the world, with records going back to 1824. Rugby clubs also referred to themselves, or continue to refer to themselves, as simply a "football club", or as a "rugby football club". "Club" has always meant an independent entity and, during the historical period in question, very few high school or university teams were independent of the educational institutions concerned. Consequently, school and university football teams were seldom referred to as "clubs". That has always been the case, for example, in American football, which has always had ties to college sport in general. Conversely, however, the oldest still-existing "football club" with a well-documented, continuous history is Dublin University Football Club, a rugby union club founded in 1854 at Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland. There exists some record of Guy's Hospital Football Club being founded in London in 1843, through an 1883 fixture card referring to Guy's 40th season.
The world's oldest extant professional football club of any code of football is the Melbourne Football Club, founded in 1858. Melbourne play Australian Rules Football (Aussie Rules) in the Australian Football League (AFL) and were premiers as recently as 2021 after defeating the Western Bulldogs in the 2021 AFL Grand Final.

Title: Liga MX
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liga_MX
Excerpt: Liga MX, officially as Liga BBVA MX for sponsorship reasons, is a professional association football league in Mexico and the top tier of the Mexican football league system. Formerly known as Liga Mayor (1943–1949) and Primera División de México (1949–2012). The league is contested by 18 participating clubs. The season is divided into two tournaments: Apertura (from July to December) and Clausura (from January to May). The champions of each tournament are decided by a final knockout phase, commonly known as Liguilla. Since 2020, promotion and relegation has been suspended.
The league has held 115 editions. The inaugural edition as a professional league was the 1943–44 season, with Asturias crowned as the first champions.
Liga MX currently ranks first in CONCACAF's league ranking index. According to the IFFHS, it was ranked as the 10th strongest league in the first decade of the 21st century. According to CONCACAF, the league with an average attendance of 25,557 during the 2014–15 season, draws the largest crowds on average of any football league in the Americas.
Twenty-four clubs have won the title at least once. América is the most successful club with sixteen titles, Guadalajara and Toluca with twelve titles each, Cruz Azul with ten titles, Tigres UANL and León with eight titles each.

Title: 2026 Liga DIMAYOR
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Liga_DIMAYOR
Excerpt: The 2026 Liga DIMAYOR (officially known as the 2026 Liga BetPlay DIMAYOR for sponsorship purposes) is the 79th season of the first division league of Colombian football. The season began on 16 January and is scheduled to end on 22 December 2026.
Two tournaments (Apertura and Finalización) are played in the season, each one of them being an independent championship. Junior entered the season as defending champions, having won the 2025 Finalización tournament, and claimed their twelfth league title in the Torneo Apertura, defeating Atlético Nacional 3–1 on aggregate in the finals.