Title: Mind Sports Organisation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mind_Sports_Organisation
Excerpt: The Mind Sports Organisation (MSO) is an association for promoting mind sports including Contract Bridge, Chess, Go, Mastermind, and Scrabble. Since 1997 it has annually organised in England a multi-sport competition, the Mind Sports Olympiad.
The MSO was founded in conjunction with the first Mind Sports Olympiad. Beside the main event, always in England and usually in London, it has supported similar events elsewhere, including Milan; South Korea, and Prague.

Title: Mind sport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mind_sport
Excerpt: A mind sport is a game of skill in which the outcome is determined mainly by intellectual ability rather than physical effort. Mind sports usually require strategic thinking, concentration, memory, logic, pattern recognition, planning, and decision-making. They are often played in competitive settings with formal rules, rankings, governing bodies, and international championships.
The term became widely used in the late 20th century, especially after the creation of the Mind Sports Olympiad in 1997, Since then, mind sports have gained broader recognition through organizations such as the International Mind Sports Association (IMSA), which governs major international competitions in games such as chess, bridge, draughts, go, xiangqi.
Mind sports can include board games, card games, abstract strategy games, memory competitions, puzzle solving, and other activities in which mental performance is the primary factor. Chess and contract bridge are among the best known examples and are recognized by the International Olympic Committee as sports. Other activities commonly described as mind sports include go, draughts, poker, mahjong, shogi, xiangqi, renju, Scrabble, speedcubing, and memory sports.
Although mind sports generally involve less physical activity than traditional sports, many players and organizations argue that they should be treated similarly because of the high level of preparation, discipline, training, and competition involved. International tournaments in mind sports often attract participants from dozens of countries and can include world championships, continental championships, and multi-sport events.

Title: Global Association of International Sports Federations
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_Association_of_International_Sports_Federations
Excerpt: The Global Association of International Sports Federations (GAISF) was a nonprofit organisation of international sports federations. It changed its name to SportAccord from March 2009 to April 2017, when it reverted to its GAISF. It was an international sport organisation with 97 full members (international sports federations governing specific sports worldwide) and 20 associate members (organisations which conduct activities closely related to the international sports federations).
In November 2022, the members of the Global Association of International Sports Federations (GAISF) voted to dissolve the organisation.
The revised governance structure will see the Association of IOC Recognised International Sports Federations (ARISF) and the Alliance of Independent Recognised Members of Sport (AIMS) join the Association of Summer Olympic International Federations (ASOIF) and the Winter Olympic Federations (WOF) as the four main stakeholders of SportAccord.
Members of the GAISF approved the final steps in the liquidation of the organisation at an extraordinary general assembly held on 14 September 2023.

Title: Sport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sport
Excerpt: A sport is a physical activity or game, often competitive and organised, that maintains or improves physical ability and skills. Sport may provide enjoyment to participants and entertainment to spectators. The number of participants in a particular sport can vary from hundreds of people to a single individual.
Physical activity is associated with various aspects of health and longevity. Higher levels of physical activity are associated with a lower risk of all-cause mortality and mortality from cardiovascular disease, ischemic stroke, and heart failure. Physical activity is also associated with reductions in symptoms of depression, anxiety, and psychological distress. In particular, aerobic exercise, yoga, and multimodal exercise have been found to be effective in reducing symptoms of postpartum depression.
Sport competitions may use a team or single person format, and may be open, allowing a broad range of participants, or closed, restricting participation to specific groups or those invited. Competitions may allow a "tie" or "draw", in which there is no single winner; others provide tie-breaking methods to ensure there is only one winner. They also may be arranged in a tournament format, producing a champion. Many sports leagues make an annual champion by arranging games in a regular sports season, followed in some cases by playoffs.
Sport is generally recognised as system of activities based in physical athleticism or physical dexterity, with major competitions admitting only sports meeting this definition. Some organisations, such as the Council of Europe, preclude activities without any physical element from classification as sports. However, a number of competitive, but non-physical, activities claim recognition as mind sports. The International Olympic Committee who oversee the Olympic Games recognises both chess and bridge as sports. SportAccord, the international sports federation association, recognises five non-physical sports: chess, bridge, draughts, Go and xiangqi. However, they limit the number of mind games which can be admitted as sports. Sport is usually governed by a set of rules or customs, which serve to ensure fair competition. Winning can be determined by physical events such as scoring goals or crossing a line first. It can also be determined by judges who are scoring elements of the sporting performance, including objective or subjective measures such as technical performance or artistic impression.
Records of performance are often kept, and for popular sports, this information may be widely announced or reported in sport news. Sport is also a major source of entertainment for non-participants, with spectator sport drawing large crowds to sport venues, and reaching wider audiences through broadcasting. Sport betting is in some cases severely regulated, and in others integral to the sport.
According to A.T. Kearney, a consultancy, the global sporting industry is worth up to $620 billion as of 2013. The world's most accessible and practised sport is running, while association football is the most popular spectator sport.

Title: List of multi-sport events
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_multi-sport_events
Excerpt: A multi-sport event is an organized sporting event, often held over multiple days, featuring competition in many different sports between organized teams of athletes from (mostly) nation-states. Events are typically held over a few days to accommodate the large number of events held, often more than those in single-sport competitions. The first major, modern, multi-sport event of international significance was the modern Olympic Games. Some of the most recognised sporting events in the world today are multi-sport events – the Asian Games, the Commonwealth Games, the Pan American Games and the Mediterranean Games – among others. This article lists all major multi-sport events, whether defunct or functioning, in the modern day. A full listing of all major multi-sport events is provided in the table below.
Transnational multi-sport events are often organised across concords of cultural elements between nations. These include language, such as the Francophone Games for French-speaking nations; ethnic, such as the Maccabiah Games for Jewish athletes; political, such as the Spartakiad used to oppose the Olympics; occupation, such as the Universiade for university students; and gender, such as World Outgames for the gay community. Participation is also delineated across other lines including region, religion, age, and season (winter instead of summer). A number of multi-sport events are held within nations, where athletes representing various intra-national states or districts compete against each other; these include the Thailand National Games and the National Games of China. These differences in intended audiences are highlighted in the table.