Title: Frank Zappa
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Zappa
Excerpt: Frank Vincent Zappa (December 21, 1940 – December 4, 1993) was an American composer, songwriter, guitarist, conductor, actor, satirist, filmmaker, and activist. In a career spanning more than 30 years, Zappa composed rock, pop, jazz, jazz fusion, orchestral and musique concrète works; he additionally produced nearly all the 60-plus albums he released with his band the Mothers of Invention and as a solo artist. His discography is characterized by nonconformity, improvisation, sonic experimentation, musical virtuosity and satire of American culture. Zappa also directed feature-length films and music videos, and designed album covers. He is considered one of the most innovative and stylistically diverse musicians of the 20th century.
As a mostly self-taught composer and performer, Zappa had diverse musical influences that led him to create music that was sometimes difficult to categorize. While in his teens, he acquired a taste for 20th-century classical modernism, African-American rhythm and blues, and doo-wop music. He began writing classical music in high school, while simultaneously playing drums in rhythm-and-blues bands, later switching to electric guitar. His debut studio album with the Mothers of Invention, Freak Out! (1966), combined satirical but seemingly conventional rock-and-roll songs with extended sound collages. He continued this eclectic and experimental approach throughout his career.
Zappa's output is unified by a conceptual continuity he termed "Project/Object", with numerous musical phrases, ideas and characters reappearing throughout his albums. His lyrics reflected his iconoclastic views of established social and political processes, structures and movements, often humorously so, and he has been described as the "godfather" of comedy rock. He was a strident critic of mainstream education and organized religion, and a forthright and passionate advocate for freedom of speech, self-education, political participation and the abolition of censorship. Unlike many other rock musicians of his generation, he disapproved of recreational drug use, but supported decriminalization and regulation.
Zappa was a highly productive and prolific musician with a controversial critical standing; supporters of his music admired its compositional complexity, while detractors found it lacking emotional depth. He had greater commercial success outside the U.S., particularly in Europe. Though he worked as an independent artist, Zappa mostly relied on distribution agreements he had negotiated with the major record labels. He remains a major influence on musicians. His many honors include his posthumous 1995 induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the 1997 Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award.

Title: Mike Patton
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mike_Patton
Excerpt: Michael Allan Patton (born January 27, 1968) is an American singer, songwriter, producer, and voice actor, best known as the lead vocalist of the rock bands Faith No More and Mr. Bungle. He has also fronted and/or played with Tomahawk, The Dillinger Escape Plan, Fantômas, Moonchild Trio, Kaada/Patton, Dead Cross, Lovage, Mondo Cane, the X-ecutioners, The Avett Brothers, and Peeping Tom. Consistent collaborators through his varied career include avant-garde jazz saxophonist John Zorn, hip hop producer Dan the Automator and classical violinist Eyvind Kang. Patton saw his largest commercial success with Faith No More; although they scored only one US hit, they scored three UK top 20 singles.
Noted for his vocal proficiency, diverse singing techniques, wide range of projects, style-transcending influences, eccentric public image and contempt for the music industry, Patton has earned critical praise and influenced many contemporary singers. He has been cited as an influence by members of Coheed and Cambria, Deftones, Five Finger Death Punch, Hoobastank, Incubus, Lostprophets, Killswitch Engage, Korn, Queens of the Stone Age, System of a Down, Flummox, Papa Roach, Mushroomhead, and Slipknot.
Patton has worked as a producer or co-producer with artists such as Merzbow, The Dillinger Escape Plan, Sepultura, Melvins, Melt-Banana, and Kool Keith. He co-founded Ipecac Recordings with Greg Werckman in 1999, and has run the label since. Patton is an outspoken, even derisive, critic of the mainstream music industry and has been a champion for non-mainstream music that he says has "fallen through the cracks."

Title: Uncle Luke
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncle_Luke
Excerpt: Luther Roderick Campbell (born December 22, 1960), also known by his stage names Luke or Uncle Luke (originally Luke Skyywalker), is an American rapper, music promoter, record executive, actor, and former leader of the rap group 2 Live Crew. He is a pioneer in Florida hip hop and the creator of the Miami bass genre, known for his sexually crude call and response lyrics. He also starred in a short-lived show on VH1, Luke's Parental Advisory.
A member of the Democratic Party, Campbell was a candidate for Mayor of Miami-Dade County in 2011, and ran for U.S. Congress in Florida's 20th congressional district in the 2026 election, where he was defeated by Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz.

Title: Joan Jett
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joan_Jett
Excerpt: Joan Jett (born Joan Marie Larkin; September 22, 1958) is an American singer, songwriter, guitarist, businesswoman, and actress. Often referred to as the "Godmother of Punk" and "Queen of Rock and Roll", she is regarded as a rock icon and an influential figure in popular rock music.
Jett co-founded and performed with rock band the Runaways from 1975 to 1979, with whom she released four studio albums. After their breakup, she recorded her debut solo studio album and brought it to several record labels with record producer Kenny Laguna, all of whom rejected her. As a result, she formed her own independent record label Blackheart Records with Laguna. Her 1980 eponymous debut studio album (later reissued as Bad Reputation) became her first entry onto the U.S. Billboard 200, bolstered by the attention its title track received. 
Following the success of her debut solo studio album, Jett founded her backing band, Joan Jett and the Blackhearts. Their first studio album, I Love Rock 'n Roll (1981), peaked at No. 2 on the U.S. Billboard 200. Its lead single, a cover version of Arrows's "I Love Rock 'n Roll", topped the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 and many international charts; it became Jett's signature song and was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 2016. The album also produced her second top ten single "Crimson and Clover", a cover version of Tommy James and the Shondells' song.
Jett has released eleven more studio albums, of which Album (1983) and Up Your Alley (1988) earned gold and platinum certifications, respectively. Her 1988 single "I Hate Myself for Loving You" netted Jett her third top ten single on the Hot 100 and her first Grammy Award nomination for Best Rock Performance. Other Hot 100 singles include "Fake Friends", "Good Music", "Light of Day", "Little Liar", and cover versions of Gary Glitter's "Do You Wanna Touch Me (Oh Yeah)", AC/DC's "Dirty Deeds", and Sly and the Family Stone's "Everyday People". 
Jett was included on Rolling Stone's 2003 and 2023 lists of the greatest guitarists of all time. In 2015, she and the Blackhearts were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Outside of music, she starred alongside Michael J. Fox in the musical drama film Light of Day (1987) and has appeared in several television series. She is also recognized for her activism and persona.

Title: Lil B
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lil_B
Excerpt: Brandon Christopher McCartney (born August 17, 1989), known professionally as Lil B and Lil B the BasedGod, is an American rapper and record producer. He began his career as a member of the Berkeley, California-based hip hop group the Pack in 2005, who signed with Too Short's Up All Nite Records, an imprint of Jive Records the following year. The group became best known for their hit song "Vans", their sole entry on the Billboard Hot 100, later releasing two studio albums before disbanding in 2010.
McCartney's extensive use of social media in his solo career and online persona has yielded a cult following. His work spans several genres, including comedy hip-hop, new age, jazz, indie rock and choral music. He calls his alter ego the BasedGod, and is credited with having coined the slang term "based", which originally denoted a lifestyle of positivity, impudence or boldness. By the late 2010s, the phrase had  been used to describe stances or actions that negate political correctness; by the 2020s, the term had entered the mainstream and regained a neutral connotation.
Lil B has been credited as "the godfather of internet rap", a pioneer of the cloud rap subgenre, as well as one of the "most influential rappers" of the 2010s, influencing artists such as Kendrick Lamar, Playboi Carti, Young Thug, Lil Yachty, Chief Keef, Chance the Rapper, Yung Lean, Earl Sweatshirt, Black Kray, Bladee, Xaviersobased, and Tyler, the Creator, as well as actor Timothée Chalamet.