Title: Tennis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tennis
Excerpt: Tennis is a racket sport that is played either individually against a single opponent (singles) or between two teams of two players each (doubles). Each player uses a tennis racket strung with a cord to strike a hollow rubber ball covered with felt over or around a net and into the opponent's court. The objective is to manoeuvre the ball in such a way that the opponent is not able to play a valid return. If a player is unable to return the ball successfully, the opponent scores a point.
Tennis can be played by anyone who can hold a racket, including wheelchair users and those who are blind or with low vision, and is played by people at every level of society and across all ages. The original forms of tennis developed in France during the late Middle Ages. The modern form of tennis originated in Birmingham, England, in the late 19th century as lawn tennis. It had close connections to various field (lawn) games such as croquet and bowls as well as to the older racket sport today called real tennis.
The rules of modern tennis have changed little since the 1890s. The two exceptions are the server needing to have one foot on the ground at all times prior to 1961, and the adoption of the tiebreak in the 1970s. In 2006, professional tennis adopted electronic review technology coupled with a point-challenge system known as Hawk-Eye, which has increasingly been succeeded by fully automated Electronic Line Calling (ELC Live) systems.
Tennis has millions of recreational players and is a popular spectator sport worldwide. The four Grand Slam tournaments, also known as "majors", are especially popular and are considered the epitome of competitive tennis. The four Grand Slam tournaments are the Australian Open, played on hardcourts; the French Open, played on red clay courts; Wimbledon, played on grass courts; and the US Open, also played on hardcourts. Tennis was one of the original Olympic sports, and has been consistently part of the Summer Olympic Games since 1988.

Title: Prakash Amritraj
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prakash_Amritraj
Excerpt: Prakash Amritraj (born October 2, 1983) is an Indian-American tennis commentator and former professional player who represented India in international tournaments. He is the son of former Indian tennis player Vijay Amritraj.

Title: Jamie Murray
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jamie_Murray
Excerpt: James Robert Murray  (born 13 February 1986) is a British former professional tennis player. A doubles specialist, he is a seven-time major doubles champion (five in mixed doubles and two in men's doubles), a Davis Cup winner, and a former doubles world No. 1. He is the older brother of former singles world No. 1, Andy Murray. Murray had an early career partnership with Eric Butorac, winning three titles in 2007. His following seven ATP finals came with six different partners. In 2013, he began a new partnership with John Peers, winning six ATP tournaments, and reaching two Grand Slam finals. After this partnership ended, Murray played alongside Bruno Soares from 2016, with the new pair enjoying almost immediate success after winning only their second ATP tournament together. They went on to win the 2016 Australian Open and US Open, and Murray became world No. 1 in April that year, spending nine weeks at the top of the rankings. He and Soares split in 2019, with Murray competing alongside compatriot Neal Skupski until the end of 2020, winning one ATP title together. He then reunited with Soares, with the pair finishing runners-up at the 2021 US Open.Murray was part of the Great Britain team that won the 2015 Davis Cup, the nation's first victory in the tournament for 79 years. He and his brother recorded crucial doubles victories in Britain's quarterfinal, semifinal and final wins.
The Davis Cup team was awarded the 2015 BBC Sports Personality Team of the Year Award. Murray has also competed at the Summer Olympics on four occasions. Brad Gilbert, who coached Andy Murray, nicknamed Jamie 'Stretch' because of his 6-foot-3-inch height and long arms.

Title: Santoro
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santoro
Excerpt: Santoro is an Italian surname derived from Latin name Santorus (festum Omnium Sanctorum, "feast of all the saints").

Title: Fabrice
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fabrice
Excerpt: Fabrice is a French masculine given name from the Roman name Fabricius, which is itself derived from the Latin faber meaning blacksmith or craftsman. Notable people with the name include: 

Fabrice Balanche (born 1969), French geographer
Fabrice Barusseau (born 1970), French politician
Fabrice Bellard, French computer programmer who founded FFmpeg
Fabrice Bethuel (born 1963), French mathematician
Fabrice Bollon (born 1965), French conductor and composer
Fabrice Brun (born 1968), French politician
Fabrice Burgaud (born 1971), French magistrate
Fabrice Caietain (fl. 1570-1578), Italian singer, songwriter and song publisher
Fabrice Calmels (born 1980), French ballet dancer and model
Fabrice Carré (1855–1921), French playwright, and librettist
Fabrice Colin (born 1972), French writer
Fabrice David, Mauritian politician
Fabrice Desvignes (born 1973), French chef
Fabrice Du Welz (born 1972), Belgian film director
Fabrice Fries (born 1960), French businessman
Fabrice Hadjadj (born 1971), French writer and philosopher
Fabrice Hybert (born 1961), French plastic artist
Fabrice Joubert, French film director, animator, story artist, and producer
Fabrice Labrousse (1806–1876), French playwright
Fabrice Lambot, French film director and producer
Fabrice Langlade, (born 1964), French sculptor
Fabrice Lhomme (born 1965), French investigative journalist
Fabrice Lig (born 1972), Belgium techno music producer
Fabrice Luchini (born 1951), French actor
Fabrice Millischer (born 1985), French trombonist, sackbutist and cellist
Fabrice Morvan (born 1966), French singer
Fabrice Pothier (born 1975), French political expert and CEO
Fabrice Roussel (born 1973), French politician
Fabrice Simon (1951–1998), Haitian-American fashion designer
Fabrice Soulier (born 1969), French professional poker player
Fabrice Ziolkowski (born 1954), French screenwriter