Title: The Man Who Would Be King
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Man_Who_Would_Be_King
Excerpt: "The Man Who Would Be King"  is an 1888 short story by Rudyard Kipling about two British adventurers in British India who become kings of Kafiristan, a remote part of Afghanistan. The story was first published in The Phantom 'Rickshaw and Other Tales (1888); it also appeared in Wee Willie Winkie and Other Child Stories (1895) and numerous later editions of that collection.  It has been adapted for other media a number of times.

Title: The Cincinnati Kid
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cincinnati_Kid
Excerpt: The Cincinnati Kid is a 1965 American sports drama film directed by Norman Jewison. It tells the story of Eric "The Kid" Stoner, a young Depression-era poker player, as he seeks to establish his reputation as the best. This quest leads him to challenge Lancey "The Man" Howard, an older player widely considered to be the best, culminating in a climactic final poker hand between the two.
The script, adapted from Richard Jessup's 1963 novel of the same name, was written by Ring Lardner Jr. and Terry Southern; it was Lardner's first major studio work since his 1947 blacklisting as one of The Hollywood Ten. The film stars Steve McQueen in the title role and Edward G. Robinson as Howard. Director Jewison, who replaced Sam Peckinpah shortly after filming began, describes The Cincinnati Kid as his "ugly duckling" film. He stated in his autobiography that he felt "sheer joy" in making the film. He considers it the film that allowed him to make the transition from the lighter comedic films he had been making and take on more serious films and subjects.
The film garnered mixed reviews from critics on its initial release. Joan Blondell earned a Golden Globe nomination for her performance as Lady Fingers.

Title: The Man Who Would Be King (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Man_Who_Would_Be_King_(film)
Excerpt: The Man Who Would Be King is a 1975 epic historical adventure film directed by John Huston, adapted by Huston and Gladys Hill from Rudyard Kipling's 1888 novella. It stars Sean Connery and Michael Caine in the leading roles, two rogue ex-soldiers who set off from late-19th-century British India in search of adventure and end up in faraway Kafiristan, where one is taken for a god and made their king. The supporting cast includes Saeed Jaffrey, Shakira Caine and Christopher Plummer as Kipling (giving a name to the novella's anonymous narrator).
An adaptation of Kipling's novella was a longtime passion project for director Huston, with development beginning in the late-1950s, and Clark Gable and Humphrey Bogart in mind for the leading roles. Shooting took place on-location in Morocco and France, and at Pinewood Studios in England. The musical score was composed by Maurice Jarre.
The Man Who Would Be King premiered at the 1975 Tehran International Film Festival, and was released in the United States on December 17. It received positive reviews from critics, who praised Huston's direction and the performances of Connery and Caine. It was also a commercial success.
The film was nominated for four Oscars at the 48th Academy Awards, including Best Adapted Screenplay. Both Connery and Caine have considered the movie their favorite of all they had worked on.

Title: The Kid Who Would Be King
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Kid_Who_Would_Be_King
Excerpt: The Kid Who Would Be King is a 2019 urban fantasy action-adventure film written and directed by Joe Cornish. A British/American venture, the film stars Louis Ashbourne Serkis, Tom Taylor, Dean Chaumoo, Rhianna Doris, Angus Imrie, Rebecca Ferguson, and Patrick Stewart. The plot follows a young boy who finds King Arthur's legendary sword Excalibur and must use it to stop an ancient enchantress from enslaving the world with help from his classmates (and former bullies) from school.
It was distributed and created by 20th Century Fox in association with Working Title Films. The film was released in the United States on 25 January 2019, and in the United Kingdom on 15 February 2019.
Despite receiving positive reviews, the movie was a box-office bomb, with estimated losses for the studio ranging as high as $50 million. It was also the second to last film to be released by 20th Century Fox (after Alita: Battle Angel) before The Walt Disney Company took over of the studio as part of their acquisition of 21st Century Fox on 20 March 2019.

Title: Mufasa: The Lion King
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mufasa:_The_Lion_King
Excerpt: Mufasa: The Lion King is a 2024 American musical drama film produced by Walt Disney Pictures. The photorealistically animated film serves as a prequel and sequel to The Lion King (2019), which itself is a remake of the 1994 animated film. Directed by Barry Jenkins from a screenplay written by Jeff Nathanson, the film's cast includes Seth Rogen, Billy Eichner, Donald Glover, Beyoncé Knowles-Carter, and John Kani reprising their roles from the remake; new cast members include Aaron Pierre, Kelvin Harrison Jr., Tiffany Boone, Mads Mikkelsen, Thandiwe Newton, Lennie James, Anika Noni Rose, and Blue Ivy Carter in her feature film debut. It features Rafiki recounting to Simba and Nala's cub, Kiara, the history of Mufasa, including how he first met Scar and other allies, his battle against a renegade pride of white lions, and the journey that led him to become King of the Pride Lands.
Development on a prequel to The Lion King was confirmed in September 2020, with Jenkins attached to direct and Nathanson finishing a draft of the script. Pierre and Harrison were announced as the voice cast in August 2021, followed by further casting between September 2022 and April 2024. The film was officially announced when its official title was revealed in September 2022 at the 2022 D23 Expo announcement. Production on the film slowed down in July 2023 due to the 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike. The film is dedicated to James Earl Jones, the voice of Mufasa in the 1994 film and remake, who died three months before the film's release; as a tribute, his voice is heard briefly during the opening titles.
Mufasa: The Lion King premiered on December 9, 2024, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, and was distributed in the United States by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures on December 20. The film received mixed reviews from critics who praised the visual effects, vocal performances, and Jenkins' direction but were critical of the screenplay. It grossed $723 million, making it the sixth-highest-grossing film of 2024.