Title: Pandita Ramabai
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pandita_Ramabai
Excerpt: Pandita Ramabai Sarasvati (23 April 1858 – 5 April 1922) was an Indian social reformer and Christian missionary. She was the first woman to be awarded the titles of Pandita as a Sanskrit scholar and Sarasvati after being examined by the faculty of the University of Calcutta. She was one of the ten women delegates of the Indian National Congress session of 1889. During her stay in England in early 1880s she converted to Christianity. She then toured extensively in the United States to collect funds for destitute Indian women. With the funds raised, she started Sharada Sadan (Home for Learning) for child widows. In the late 1890s, Ramabai founded Mukti Mission, a Christian charity at Kedgaon village, forty miles east of the city of Pune. The mission was later named Pandita Ramabai Mukti Mission. In 1883, she testified before the Hunter Commission in support of female education in India.

Title: Anglican religious order
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anglican_religious_order
Excerpt: Anglican religious orders are communities of men or women (or in some cases mixed communities of men and women) in the Anglican Communion who live under a common rule of life. The members of religious orders take vows which often include the traditional monastic vows of poverty, chastity and obedience, or the ancient vow of stability, or sometimes a modern interpretation of some or all of these vows. Members may be laity or clergy, but most orders and their houses include a mixture of both. They lead a common life of work and prayer, sometimes on a single site, sometimes spread over multiple locations. About 2,400 monks and nuns are currently in the Anglican communion, about 55% of whom are women and 45% of whom are men.
Though many Anglicans are members of religious orders recognized by the Anglican Communion, others may be members of ecumenical Protestant or Old Catholic religious orders while maintaining their Anglican identity and parochial membership in Anglican churches.

Title: Community of St Mary the Virgin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Community_of_St_Mary_the_Virgin
Excerpt: The Community of St Mary the Virgin (CSMV) is an Anglican religious order based at Wantage in Oxfordshire, England. It was founded in 1848 by the vicar of Wantage, the Reverend William John Butler and is one of the oldest surviving religious communities in the Church of England.

Title: Agnes Blencowe
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agnes_Blencowe
Excerpt: Agnes Blencowe  (13 April 1817 – 6 March 1896) was the British co-founder of the Ladies’ Ecclesiastical Embroidery Society in 1854. She later joined the Community of St Mary the Virgin in Wantage as a Church of England nun.