Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles
Excerpt: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (TMNT) is an American media franchise created by comic book artists Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. It follows Leonardo, Donatello, Raphael and Michelangelo, four anthropomorphic turtle brothers trained in ninjutsu who fight evil in New York City. The franchise encompasses printed media, television series, feature films, video games, and merchandise.
The franchise began as a comic book, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, which Eastman and Laird conceived as a parody of elements popular in superhero comics at the time. The first issue was published in 1984 by Eastman and Laird's company Mirage Studios and was a surprise success. In 1987, Eastman and Laird licensed the characters to Playmates Toys, which developed a line of Turtles action figures. About $1.1 billion worth of Turtles toys were sold between 1988 and 1992, making them the third-bestselling toy figures ever at the time.
The action figures were promoted with an animated series, which premiered in 1987 and ran for almost a decade. It was succeeded by several other television series. The first Turtles video game was released in 1989, the first of several developed by the Japanese company Konami. The first Turtles film, released in 1990, became the highest-grossing independent film up to that point.
Eastman sold his share of the Turtles franchise to Laird in 2000. In 2009, Laird sold it to Viacom, now Paramount Skydance Corporation. The franchise has continued with a new comic book series, television series, films and video games.

Title: Splinter (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Splinter_(Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles)
Excerpt: Splinter, often referred to as Master Splinter or Sensei by his students/sons, is a fictional character from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles comics and all related media. A mutant rat, he is the grave and stoic sage of the Turtles, their ninjutsu and martial arts instructor, and their adoptive father.
The character was originally a parody of the Marvel Comics character Stick.

Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2012 TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_(2012_TV_series)
Excerpt: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is an American animated television series developed by Ciro Nieli, Joshua Sternin, and Jennifer Ventimilia for Nickelodeon, based on the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles characters created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. The series begins with the Turtles emerging from their sewer home for the first time, using their ninjutsu training to fight enemies in present-day New York City. The series ran in the United States from September 28, 2012, to November 12, 2017.
The series was first announced in October 2009, following the news that Nickelodeon's parent company Viacom had acquired the rights to the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles franchise. The show was created to reach a core audience of boys aged 6 to 11; it was one half of Nickelodeon's strategy to reboot two established brands for new viewers, coinciding with Nickelodeon Animation Studio's development of new Winx Club episodes for girls. It was produced by Nickelodeon Animation Studio and LowBar Productions. Bardel Entertainment and Technicolor Animation India handled layout and CG animation services.
During the months leading to its premiere, Nickelodeon and Playmates Toys released lines of merchandise featuring the new character designs. The two-part premiere took place on September 28 and September 29, 2012, reaching 3.9 million viewers. The debut ratings were the highest for a Nickelodeon animated series since 2009, leading to a second season pickup in October 2012. Three more seasons followed; the fifth and final season was rebranded as Tales of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and did not fully air on Nickelodeon, as episodes 115–121 premiered on its sister channel Nicktoons.

Title: List of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles characters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_characters
Excerpt: The following is a list of characters in the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles franchise.

Title: Fortnite seasonal events
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fortnite_seasonal_events
Excerpt: Fortnite is a free-to-play video game platform developed by Epic Games. Fortnite originally was developed as the cooperative player-versus-environment survival game, Fortnite Save the World, released in July 2017. The game's development shifted significantly following the beta release of the Fortnite Battle Royale in September 2017, a battle royale game where 100 players compete to be the last player standing. After dropping from an airborne Battle Bus onto an island featuring several points of interest (POIs), players gather various weapons and gear. During a round of gameplay, a harmful storm front periodically shrinks while moving across the map, drawing players into smaller areas on the island.
This new mode proved exceptionally popular, drawing large numbers of players. With Fortnite Battle Royale's success, Epic expanded the Fortnite platform to include other games and user-created modes built atop Unreal Engine and the Unreal Editor for Fortnite (UEFN) system.
Since December 2017, Fortnite has included seasonal content purchasable via the battle pass, with various cosmetic rewards. Each season lasts for two to three months. Starting towards the end of the third season in April 2018, Epic began introducing a narrative structure to their seasons, to explain changes to the island and to introduce new licensed cosmetic items. Fortnite has conducted continuous collaborations, such as with Disney, Marvel, and Star Wars themed seasons.
By 2025, the Fortnite platform supported the Epic-developed games Fortnite Battle Royale, Fortnite: Save the World, Lego Fortnite, Fortnite Festival, Rocket Racing, and Fortnite Ballistic, along with user-created games in Fortnite Creative and Fall Guys.