Title: Disneyland Paris
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disneyland_Paris
Excerpt: Disneyland Paris is an entertainment resort in Marne-la-Vallée, France, located about 32 kilometres (20 miles) east of the city centre of Paris. It encompasses two theme parks, seven Disney-owned hotels, two convention centers, a golf course, an arena, and a shopping, dining and entertainment complex. Opened on 12 April 1992, the resort is operated by Disney Experiences, a division of the Walt Disney Company.  
It is the second Disney park outside the United States, following the opening of the Tokyo Disney Resort in 1983. Disneyland Paris is the only Disney resort outside of the United States to be completely owned by the company. Disneyland Park, opened in 1992, is the original theme park of the complex. A second theme park, Disney Adventure World (then known as Walt Disney Studios Park), opened in 2002. 
The resort is located on approximately 2,100 hectares (5,200 acres) of land which is being developed under a master agreement with French governmental authorities. About half of the land has been developed, including a planned community, Val d'Europe. 
Disneyland Paris is Europe's most-visited theme park, and the largest single-site employer in France with 17,000 employees. It generated $343 million in profit for Disney in 2023. By 2022, 375 million people had visited the park.

Title: BBC Television Shakespeare
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BBC_Television_Shakespeare
Excerpt: The BBC Television Shakespeare is a series of British television adaptations of the plays of William Shakespeare, created by Cedric Messina and broadcast by BBC Television. Transmitted in the UK from 3 December 1978 to 27 April 1985, the series spanned seven seasons and thirty-seven episodes.
Development began in 1975 when Messina saw that the grounds of Glamis Castle would make a perfect location for an adaptation of Shakespeare's As You Like It for the Play of the Month series. Upon returning to London, however, he had come to envision an entire series devoted exclusively to the dramatic works of Shakespeare. When he encountered a less than enthusiastic response from the BBC's departmental heads, Messina bypassed the usual channels and took his idea directly to the top of the BBC hierarchy, who greenlighted the show. Experiencing financial, logistical and creative problems in the early days of production, Messina persevered and served as executive producer for two years. When he was replaced by Jonathan Miller at the start of season three, the show experienced something of a creative renaissance as strictures on the directors' interpretations of the plays were loosened, a policy continued under Shaun Sutton, who took over as executive producer for seasons five, six and seven. By the end of its run, the series had proved both a ratings and a financial success.
Initially, the adaptations received generally negative reviews, although the reception improved somewhat as the series went on, and directors were allowed more freedom, leading to interpretations becoming more daring. Several episodes are now held in high esteem, particularly some of the traditionally lesser-known and less frequently staged plays. The complete set is a popular collection, and several episodes represent the only non-theatrical production of the particular play currently available on DVD. From 26 May 2020, all 37 plays became available to stream in North America via BritBox. As of May 2025, they were no longer available on Britbox.

Title: Culture of the United Kingdom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culture_of_the_United_Kingdom
Excerpt: The culture of the United Kingdom is influenced by the histories of its constituent nations, its interaction with the cultures of Europe, the individual diverse cultures of England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, and the impact of the British Empire. The culture of the United Kingdom may also be referred to as British culture. Although British culture is a distinct entity, the individual cultures of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are diverse. These four cultures overlap to varying degrees. British literature is particularly esteemed. The modern novel was developed in Britain, and playwrights, poets, and authors are among its most prominent cultural figures. Britain has also made notable contributions to theatre, literature, music, mainstream and independent cinema, art, architecture and television. The UK is also the home of the Church of England, Church of Scotland, Church in Wales, the state church and mother church of the Anglican Communion, the third-largest Christian denomination. Britain contains some of the world's oldest universities, has made many contributions to philosophy, science, technology and medicine, and is the birthplace of many prominent scientists and inventions. The Industrial Revolution began in the UK and had a profound effect on socio-economic and cultural conditions around the world.
British culture has been influenced by historical and modern immigration, the historical invasions of Great Britain, and the British Empire. As a result of the British Empire, significant British influence can be observed in the language, law, culture and institutions of its former colonies, most of which are members of the Commonwealth of Nations. A subset of these states form the Anglosphere, and are among Britain's closest allies. British colonies and dominions influenced British culture in turn, particularly British cuisine.
Sport is central to British culture, with cricket, football, boxing, tennis, and rugby modernizing in Britain. The UK has been described as a "cultural superpower", and London has been described as a world cultural capital. A global opinion poll for the BBC saw the UK ranked the third most positively viewed nation in the world (behind Germany and Canada) in 2013 and 2014.
Music is a vibrant sector of British culture with musicians like the Beatles, Ed Sheeran, Elton John and many more. Dubbed the "British Invasion", its music reached many countries like the United States and those in Europe in the 1960s. Today, they influence a large part of music in general and also media and entertainment in the United Kingdom.

Title: List of Christmas films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Christmas_films
Excerpt: Many Christmas stories have been adapted to feature films and TV specials, and have been broadcast and repeated many times on television. Since the popularization of home video in the 1980s, these films are sold and re-sold every year during the holiday shopping season. Many television networks, film studios, and production companies, such as cable television channels Hallmark and Lifetime, produce and release new Christmas-themed films every year during or around December, all with variations of similar plots and themes. Additionally, films revolving around the Nativity story of Christmas are regularly produced such as The Nativity Story (2006) and The Star (2017).
One film that has become the flashpoint for "Is this a Christmas movie or not?" debates is Die Hard (1988), with some viewing the film as a Christmas movie intertwined with an action genre setting or a film that is simply set around the Christmas and holiday season.