Title: Cy Twombly
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cy_Twombly
Excerpt: Edwin Parker "Cy" Twombly Jr. (; April 25, 1928 – July 5, 2011) was an American painter, sculptor, and photographer.
Twombly influenced artists such as Anselm Kiefer, Francesco Clemente, Julian Schnabel, and Jean-Michel Basquiat. His best-known works are typically large-scale, freely-scribbled, calligraphic and graffiti-like works on solid fields of mostly gray, tan, or off-white colors. His later paintings and works on paper shifted toward "romantic symbolism", and their titles can be interpreted visually through shapes and forms and words. Twombly often quoted poets such as Stéphane Mallarmé, Rainer Maria Rilke, and John Keats, as well as classical myths and allegories, in his works. Examples of this are his Apollo and The Artist and a series of eight drawings consisting solely of inscriptions of the word "Virgil".
Twombly's works are in the permanent collections of modern art museums globally, including the Menil Collection in Houston, the Tate Modern in London, New York's Museum of Modern Art and Munich's Museum Brandhorst. He was commissioned for a ceiling at the Musée du Louvre in Paris.
In a 1994 retrospective, curator Kirk Varnedoe described Twombly's work as "influential among artists, discomfiting to many critics and truculently difficult not just for a broad public, but for sophisticated initiates of postwar art as well." Writing in Artforum, Travis Jeppesen went further, declaring Twombly to be "the greatest American painter of the twentieth century, and the greatest painter after Picasso, period."

Title: Menil Collection
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Menil_Collection
Excerpt: The Menil Collection, located in Houston, Texas, refers to the museum that houses the art collection of founders John de Menil and Dominique de Menil, or to the collection of paintings, sculptures, prints, drawings, photographs and rare books it houses. The museum is said to rank with "the great private museums in the United States—the Frick in New York City, the Gardner in Boston, and the Phillips in Washington, D.C."
The future couple met at a ball at Versailles in 1930. At that time, Jean Marie Joseph Menu de Ménil (who subsequently Americanized his name) was 26 year-old baron. Dominique was the daughter of Conrad Schlumberger, who was a founder of the oil-drilling equipment company Schlumberger, which was the basis of the family fortune, which exceeded $100 million. Dominique converted to Catholicism, and they were married in 1931. The family settled in Houston in 1941, to escape the Nazi occupation of France. 
The de Menils' most important mentor was a Dominican priest named Father Marie-Alaine Couturier. He taught them about modern art, with a strong interest in spirituality.  He also advised them that with their great wealth, they should buy art and share it with the public. By the time of John de Menil's death in 1973, the couple had collected 10,000 art objects. 
While the foundation of the collection is made up of a once-private collection, Menil Foundation, Inc. is a tax-exempt, nonprofit, public charity corporation formed under Section 501(c)3 of the Internal Revenue Code. Additionally, the Menil receives public funds granted by the City of Houston, the State of Texas, and the federal government through the National Endowment for the Arts.

Title: Cy Twombly (baseball)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cy_Twombly_(baseball)
Excerpt: Edwin Parker "Cy" Twombly Sr. (June 15, 1897 – December 3, 1974) was an American right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball who appeared in seven games for the 1921 Chicago White Sox. Born in Groveland, Massachusetts, he attended Lehigh University and Springfield College. He was a swim coach and later Athletic Director of Washington & Lee University in Lexington, Virginia in the late 1950s and early 1960s. His namesake son was a major American artist. He died at age 77 in Savannah, Georgia.

Title: Anne de Zogheb
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anne_de_Zogheb
Excerpt: Anne Alison de Zogheb (2 October 1942 – 29 March 2017), also known as Anne Anka, was an Egyptian-born model and art collector. She was married to singer Paul Anka from 1963 to 2000.

Title: Sasan Ghandehari
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sasan_Ghandehari
Excerpt: Hossein "Sasan" Ghandehari (born 1965) is an Iranian-born British billionaire venture capitalist, and the only son of Hourieh Peramaa, a Kazakh-born billionaire property investor.
Ghandehari and his wife Yassmin Ghandehari are based in London, and are prominent art collectors of "impressionism, postwar and contemporary" art, such as Cy Twombly. 
In January 2026, Ghandehari's $10 billion family trust paid for Nigel Farage to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos as their representative.