Title: Mad (magazine)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mad_(magazine)
Excerpt: Mad (stylized in all caps) is an American humor magazine which was launched in 1952 and currently published by DC Comics, a unit of the DC Entertainment subsidiary of Warner Bros. Discovery. Mad was founded by editor Harvey Kurtzman and publisher William Gaines, launched as a comic book series before it became a magazine. It was widely imitated and influential, affecting satirical media, as well as the cultural landscape of the late 20th century, with editor Al Feldstein increasing readership to more than two million during its 1973–1974 circulation peak. It is the last surviving title in the EC Comics line, which sold Mad to Premier Industries in 1961, but closed in 1956.
Mad publishes satire on all aspects of life and popular culture, politics, entertainment, and public figures. Its format includes TV and movie parodies, and satire articles about everyday occurrences that are changed to seem humorous. Mad's mascot, Alfred E. Neuman, is usually on the cover, with his face replacing that of a celebrity or character who is being lampooned. From 1952 to 2018, Mad published 550 regular magazine issues, as well as scores of reprint "Specials", original-material paperbacks, reprint compilation books and other print projects. After AT&T merged with DC's then-owner Time Warner in June 2018, Mad ended newsstand distribution, continuing in comic-book stores and via subscription.

Title: Cracked (magazine)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cracked_(magazine)
Excerpt: Cracked was an American humor magazine. Founded in 1958, Cracked proved to be the most durable of the many publications to be launched in the wake of Mad magazine.
In print, Cracked conspicuously copied Mad's layouts and style, and even featured a simpleminded, wide-cheeked mascot, a janitor named Sylvester P. Smythe on its covers, in a manner similar to Mad's Alfred E. Neuman. Unlike Neuman, who appears primarily on covers, Smythe sometimes spoke and was frequently seen inside the magazine, interacting with parody subjects and other regular characters. A 1998 reader contest led to Smythe finally getting a full middle name: "Phooey."  An article on Cracked.com, the website which adopted Cracked's name after the magazine ceased publication, joked that the magazine was "created as a knock-off of Mad magazine just over 50 years ago", and it "spent nearly half a century with a fan base primarily comprised of people who got to the store after Mad sold out."
Cracked's publication frequency was reduced in the 1990s, and was erratic in the 2000s. In 2006, the magazine was revived with a new editorial formula that represented a significant departure from its prior Mad style. The new format was more akin to "lad" magazines like Maxim and FHM. The new formula, however, was unsuccessful and Cracked again canceled its print magazine in February 2007 after three issues. Later that year, the brand was carried over to a website, Cracked.com, now owned by Literally Media.

Title: Cracked.com
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cracked.com
Excerpt: Cracked.com is an American website that was based on Cracked magazine. It was founded in 2005 by Jack O'Brien.
In 2007, Cracked had a couple of hundred thousand unique users per month and three or four million page views. In June 2011, it reached 27 million page views, according to comscore. According to O'Brien, the site had about 17 million unique visitors and 300 million page views in February 2012.

Title: Jason Pargin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jason_Pargin
Excerpt: Jason Keith Pargin ( PAR-jin; born January 10, 1975) is an American novelist, humorist, and internet personality. Writing for many years under the pen name David Wong, he founded the humor site Pointless Waste of Time and later served as executive editor of Cracked.com. He is the author of the comic lovecraftian horror series John Dies at the End (2007–present) and the Zoey Ashe series (2015–present), as well as the standalone novel I'm Starting to Worry About This Black Box of Doom (2024). John Dies at the End was adapted as a feature film in 2012. Pargin retired the David Wong pseudonym in 2020, and since 2022 has produced short-form videos regarding social phenomena on TikTok and other social media platforms, which he has credited with sustaining his writing career. Since 2023, he has co-hosted the Mountain Monsters watch-along comedy podcast Bigfeets.

Title: Bill Benter
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Benter
Excerpt: William Benter (born 1957) is an American professional gambler and philanthropist who focuses on horse betting. Benter earned nearly $1 billion through the development of one of the most successful analysis computer software programs in the horse racing market and is considered to be the most successful gambler of all time.
Benter has served as president of the Hong Kong Rotary Club, founded the Benter Foundation, is chairman and International CEO of Acusis LLC in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and occasionally lectures university students on subjects like statistics and mathematical probability.
Benter is a philanthropist donating to charitable causes both in Hong Kong and the United States.