Title: One Thousand and One Nights
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_Thousand_and_One_Nights
Excerpt: One Thousand and One Nights or The Thousand and One Nights (Arabic: أَلْفُ لَيْلَةٍ وَلَيْلَةٌ, Alf Laylah wa-Laylah) is a collection of Middle Eastern folktales compiled in the Arabic language during the Islamic Golden Age. It is often known in English as The Arabian Nights, from the first English-language edition (c. 1706–1721), which rendered the title as The Arabian Nights' Entertainments.
The work was collected over many centuries by various authors, translators, and scholars across West Asia, Central Asia, South Asia, and North Africa.  Some tales trace their roots back to ancient and medieval Arabic, Persian, and Mesopotamian literature. Most tales, however, were originally folk stories from the Abbasid and Mamluk eras, while others, especially the frame story, are probably drawn from the Pahlavi Persian work Hezār Afsān (Persian: هزار افسان, lit. 'A Thousand Tales'), which in turn relied partly on Indian elements.
If there was ever a canonical text with all the stories in a specific order, that text is no longer extant. But remaining editions of the Nights have some things in common, including the story's framing device. In the frame story, the ruler Shahryar is told the tales by his wife Scheherazade, with one tale told over each night of storytelling. The stories proceed from this original tale; some are framed within other tales, while some are self-contained. Some editions contain only a few hundred nights of storytelling, while others include 1001 or more. The bulk of the text is in prose, although verse is occasionally used for songs and riddles and to express heightened emotion. Most of the poems are single couplets or quatrains, although some are longer.
Some of the stories commonly associated with the Arabian Nights—particularly "Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp" and "Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves"—were not part of the collection in the original Arabic versions, but were instead added to the collection by French translator Antoine Galland after he heard them from Syrian writer Hanna Diyab during the latter's visit to Paris in 1709. Other stories, such as "The Seven Voyages of Sinbad the Sailor", had an independent existence before being added to the collection in later manuscripts and translations.

Title: List of Minder episodes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Minder_episodes
Excerpt: This episode list gives brief descriptions and some other details of the episodes of the ITV television series Minder, set in contemporary London.
The earliest episodes focus on Terry McCann (Dennis Waterman), a former professional boxer who has served time in jail and is determined not to return there. He finds himself in the orbit of Arthur Daley (George Cole), a middle-aged car salesman and self-described entrepreneur working on the edge of (and often beyond) the law in pursuit of a quick profit. Terry works for Arthur as an assistant/bodyguard (known as a 'minder') and is often loaned out by Arthur to work for others in a similar capacity. Over the course of the first three series, the focus of the show shifts so that the ever-scheming Arthur moves from being a supporting character to co-lead with Terry.
Series 1–7 (first broadcast from 1979 to 1985, then in 1989) feature both Terry and Arthur. Two TV films were also made between series 6 and 7, broadcast on Christmas Day 1985 and Boxing Day 1988. Terry was written out of the show after series 7.
Series 8–10 (first broadcast in 1991, 1993 and 1994) focus on Arthur Daley, older but no wiser, and his nephew Ray Daley (Gary Webster) as his new minder/assistant.
Series 11 (first broadcast in 2009 on Channel 5) was a short-lived revival of the programme with a completely new cast.
Following the deaths of George Cole in 2015, Glynn Edwards in 2018 and Dennis Waterman in 2022, Gary Webster and Patrick Malahide are the two surviving cast members.

Title: List of The Phil Silvers Show episodes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_The_Phil_Silvers_Show_episodes
Excerpt: This is a list of all episodes of The Phil Silvers Show.

Title: It (2017 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/It_(2017_film)
Excerpt: It (titled onscreen as It Chapter One) is a 2017 American supernatural horror film directed by Andy Muschietti and written by Chase Palmer, Cary Joji Fukunaga, and Gary Dauberman. It is the first of a two-part adaptation of the 1986 novel of the same name by Stephen King, as well as the second adaptation following Tommy Lee Wallace's 1990 miniseries. Starring Jaeden Lieberher and Bill Skarsgård, the film was produced by New Line Cinema, KatzSmith Productions, Lin Pictures, and Vertigo Entertainment. Set in the fictional town of Derry, Maine, the film tells the story of The Losers' Club, a group of seven outcast children who are terrorized by the eponymous being which emerges from the sewer in the form of Pennywise the Dancing Clown (Skarsgård), and face their own personal demons as the monster torments them.
Development began in March 2009 by Warner Bros., with David Kajganich planned to direct, before being replaced by Fukunaga in June 2012. Fukunaga dropped out in May 2015 and was replaced by Muschietti in June. He drew inspiration from 1980s films including The Howling (1981), The Thing (1982), The Goonies (1985), Stand by Me (1986) and Near Dark (1987), and cited the influence of Steven Spielberg. The film was moved to New Line Cinema division in May 2014. Principal photography began in Toronto on June 27, 2016, and ended on September 21, 2016. It was filmed on locations in the Greater Toronto Area, including Port Hope, Oshawa, and Riverdale. Benjamin Wallfisch was hired in March 2017 to compose the musical score.
It premiered at the TCL Chinese Theatre, Los Angeles, on September 5, 2017, and was released in the United States on September 8, in 2D and IMAX formats. A critical and commercial success, the film set box office records and grossed over $704 million worldwide, becoming the third-highest-grossing R-rated film at the time of its release, and grossed over $719 million through subsequent re-releases. Unadjusted for inflation, it became the highest-grossing horror film of all time. The film received generally positive reviews, with critics praising the performances, direction, cinematography and musical score, and was called one of the best Stephen King adaptations. It received numerous awards and nominations, including a nomination for the Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Sci-Fi/Horror Movie. It appeared on several critics' end-of-year lists. The second film, It Chapter Two, was released in 2019, covering the remainder of the book. A prequel television series, It: Welcome to Derry, premiered on HBO in 2025, with Skarsgård returning as Pennywise.

Title: List of The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet episodes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_The_Adventures_of_Ozzie_and_Harriet_episodes
Excerpt: The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet ran from 1952 to 1966 over 14 seasons. It started as a radio show, and for around the first two seasons, the television series ran simultaneously with the radio show. This wholesome family sitcom features the Nelson family, consisting of Ozzie, Harriet, David, and Rick Nelson, and later David's wife, June Blair, and Rick's wife, Kris Nelson. The earlier seasons feature a pal for Ozzie, the competitive, yet good-natured, Thorny (played by Don Defore). Later seasons also include characters Doc Williams (played by Frank Cady), Joe Randolph (played by Lyle Talbot), Clara Randolph (played by Mary Jane Croft), and Darby (played by Parley Baer).