Title: Robert Graves
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Graves
Excerpt: Robert Ranke Graves (24 July 1895 – 7 December 1985), whose second name is sometimes given as von Ranke,  was an English poet, novelist and critic. His father was Alfred Perceval Graves, a celebrated Irish poet and figure in the Gaelic revival; they were both Celticists and students of Irish mythology.
Robert Graves produced more than 140 works in his lifetime. His poems, his translations, and innovative analysis of the Greek myths, his memoir of his early life—including his role in the First World War, Good-Bye to All That (1929), and his speculative study of poetic inspiration in The White Goddess (1948), have never been out of print. He was also a renowned short story writer, with work such as "The Tenement" still read.
Graves earned his living from writing, particularly popular historical novels such as I, Claudius (1934), Count Belisarius (1938), and King Jesus (1946). He was also a prominent translator of Classical Latin and Ancient Greek texts; his versions of The Twelve Caesars and The Golden Ass remain popular for their clarity and entertaining style. Graves was awarded the 1934 James Tait Black Memorial Prize for both I, Claudius and Claudius the God.
Graves's eldest half-brother Philip achieved success as a journalist, and his younger brother Charles was a writer and journalist.

Title: Lucia Graves
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucia_Graves
Excerpt: Lucia Graves (born 21 July 1943) is an English writer and translator, working in English and Spanish/Catalan. Her translations include the worldwide bestsellers The Shadow of the Wind, The Angel's Game, The Prisoner of Heaven, and The Labyrinth of Spirits, by Carlos Ruiz Zafón. She has translated over 30 volumes.

Title: Robert James Graves
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_James_Graves
Excerpt: Robert James Graves  (27 March 1796 – 20 March 1853) was an Anglo-Irish surgeon after whom Graves' disease takes its name. He was President of the Royal College of Physicians of Ireland, Fellow of the Royal Society of London and the co-founder of the Dublin Journal of Medical Science. He is also claimed to be the uncredited inventor of the second-hand on watches.

Title: Robert Edmund Graves
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Edmund_Graves
Excerpt: Robert Edmund Graves (1835–1922) was an English librarian.

Title: Robert Perceval Graves
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Perceval_Graves
Excerpt: Robert Perceval Graves (9 March 1810 in Dublin – 5 October 1893 in Dublin) was an Irish biographer and clergyman, brother of both mathematician and bishop Charles Graves and jurist and mathematician John T. Graves. He was a brother-in-law of the German historian Leopold von Ranke who was married to his sister Helena Clarissa, and an uncle of the poet Alfred Perceval Graves. Graves is best known for his three-volume biography of W. R. Hamilton.