Title: Keith Flint
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keith_Flint
Excerpt: Keith Charles Flint (17 September 1969 – 4 March 2019) was an English dancer, and vocalist of the electronic dance act The Prodigy. Starting out as a dancer for the group, he became the vocalist and performed on the group's two UK number-one singles, "Firestarter" and "Breathe", both released in 1996. He was also the singer of his own band, Flint.
Flint owned a motorcycle racing team, Team Traction Control, which won four Isle of Man TT races in 2015 and 2016, and competed in the British Superbike Championship.

Title: Alan Keith
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Keith
Excerpt: Alan Keith, OBE (born Alexander Kossoff; 19 October 1908 – 17 March 2003) was a British actor, disc jockey and radio presenter, noted for being the longest-serving and eldest presenter on British radio by the time of his death aged 94.

Title: Hackney (surname)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hackney_(surname)
Excerpt: Hackney is an English medieval surname from the village (now London borough) of Hackney.
Notable persons with the surname Hackney include:

Title: Hackney Diamonds
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hackney_Diamonds
Excerpt: Hackney Diamonds is the twenty-fourth British and the twenty-sixth American studio album by the English rock band the Rolling Stones, released on 20 October 2023 on Polydor. It is the first album of original material by the Rolling Stones since 2005's A Bigger Bang and their first since the 2021 death of drummer Charlie Watts, who contributed to some tracks in 2019. Produced by Andrew Watt, it features guest contributions from Elton John, Lady Gaga, Paul McCartney, Stevie Wonder, and former Rolling Stones bassist Bill Wyman.
Hackney Diamonds received positive reviews, with some critics considering it the band's strongest album in decades. It was promoted by the singles "Angry", "Sweet Sounds of Heaven", and "Mess It Up". The album was backed by an extensive marketing campaign that included publicity stunts and merchandise, amongst other promotions.
Hackney Diamonds reached number one in 20 countries, including the UK, Austria, Australia, Greece, Argentina, the Netherlands and Germany. It was the 14th Rolling Stones album to top the UK Albums Chart, in its first week and again on 22 December, making it the first Rolling Stones Christmas number one album. It was certified gold in several countries and certified platinum in Austria, France, and Germany. The Rolling Stones embarked on the Hackney Diamonds Tour in support of the album in 2024. The album won the award for Best Rock Album at the 67th Annual Grammy Awards.

Title: Hackney Diamonds Tour
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hackney_Diamonds_Tour
Excerpt: The Hackney Diamonds Tour was a concert tour by English rock band the Rolling Stones, in support of their 2023 studio album Hackney Diamonds, their first studio album of original material in 18 years. The shows were sponsored by the AARP, an American non-profit that represents the interests of those over the age of fifty. The tour grossed $235,000,000 with 848,000 tickets sold.