Title: Wet Wet Wet
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wet_Wet_Wet
Excerpt: Wet Wet Wet are a Scottish soft rock band formed in 1982 in Clydebank by Marti Pellow (lead vocals), Graeme Clark (bass), Graeme Duffin (guitar) and Tommy Cunningham (drums). The bands debut album, Popped In Souled Out (1987) spawned four successful singles, including "Wishing I Was Lucky" and "Angel Eyes (Home and Away)", with the album peaking atop the albums charts in the United Kingdom, selling 1.5 million copies and earning a 5x Platinum certification from the British Phonographic Industry (BPI). 
The lead single from their fourth album, Picture This (1995), "Love Is All Around", topped the singles charts in the United Kingdom, Australia, Denmark, Iceland, Sweden and their native Scotland. Spending a total of fifteen consecutive weeks at number one on the UK Singles Charts, it became one of the longest chart reigns of all time in the United Kingdom, where it sold over 1.9 million copies. The band dissolved in 1997 following the release of their fifth album, 10. The band reformed in 2004 with the original members, and released their fifth album, Timeless in 2007. 
The band is currently composed of founding member Graeme Clark (bass, vocals) and lead vocalist Kevin Simm, who replaced founding member Marti Pellow in 2018 after he left during the previous year. Graeme Duffin (lead guitar, vocals) has also been with the band as a touring musician since 1983. The band were named Best British Newcomer at the 1988 Brit Awards.

Title: Wet Hot American Summer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wet_Hot_American_Summer
Excerpt: Wet Hot American Summer is a 2001 American satirical comedy film directed by David Wain from a screenplay written by Wain and Michael Showalter. The film stars an ensemble cast that includes Showalter, Janeane Garofalo, David Hyde Pierce, Molly Shannon, Paul Rudd, Christopher Meloni, Marguerite Moreau, Ken Marino, Michael Ian Black, Zak Orth, A. D. Miles, Amy Poehler, Bradley Cooper (in his film debut), Marisa Ryan, Kevin Sussman, Joe Lo Truglio, and Elizabeth Banks.
It takes place during the last full day at a fictional summer camp in 1981, and spoofs the sex comedies aimed at teen audiences of that era.
The film was a critical and commercial failure, but it has since developed a cult following, and many of its cast members have gone on to high-profile work. Netflix revived the franchise with the release of Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp, an eight-episode prequel series starring most of the film's original cast, on July 31, 2015; and Wet Hot American Summer: Ten Years Later, an eight-episode sequel series, on August 4, 2017.

Title: Wet
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wet
Excerpt: Wet may refer to:

Moisture, the condition of containing liquid or being covered or saturated in liquid
Wetting (or wetness), a measure of how well a liquid sticks to a solid rather than forming a sphere on the surface
Wet or WET may also refer to:

Title: Wet Willie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wet_Willie
Excerpt: Wet Willie is an American southern rock band from Mobile, Alabama. Their best-known song, "Keep On Smilin'", reached No. 10 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart in August 1974. Several other of the group's songs also appeared on the singles charts in the 1970s, which utilized their soulful brand of Southern rock.

Title: Wet Leg
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wet_Leg
Excerpt: Wet Leg are an English indie rock band from the Isle of Wight, founded in 2019 by Rhian Teasdale (vocals, guitar) and Hester Chambers (guitar). The band also includes Josh Mobaraki (guitar, keyboards), Ellis Durand (bass) and Henry Holmes (drums).
Initially a duo, Teasdale and Chambers debuted with the single, "Chaise Longue", in 2021. Their self-titled debut album debuted in 2022 at number one on the UK Albums Chart and Australia's  ARIA Albums Chart. The album was shortlisted for the 2022 Mercury Prize. At the 65th Annual Grammy Awards, Wet Leg won Best Alternative Music Album for their debut and Best Alternative Music Performance for "Chaise Longue", and were nominated for Best New Artist. They also won Best New Artist and Best British Group at the 2023 Brit Awards.
The band's second studio album, Moisturizer (2025), was written and recorded as a five-piece, with former touring members Mobaraki, Durand and Holmes all becoming core members of the band. Released to critical acclaim, the album debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart.
Wet Leg have cited various bands and artists as influences, including Bombay Bicycle Club, PJ Harvey, the White Stripes, the Strokes, and Kings of Leon.