Title: Kendo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kendo
Excerpt: Kendo (Japanese: 剣道, Hepburn: Kendō; lit. 'sword way'  or 'sword path'  or 'way of the sword') is a modern Japanese martial art, descended from kenjutsu (one of the old Japanese martial arts, swordsmanship), that uses bamboo swords (shinai) as well as protective armor (bōgu). It began as samurai warriors' customary swordsmanship exercises, and today, it is widely practiced within Japan and has spread to many other nations across the world.

Title: Muay Thai
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muay_Thai
Excerpt: Muay Thai or Muaythai (Thai: มวยไทย, RTGS: muai thai, pronounced [mūaj tʰāj] ), sometimes referred to as Thai boxing, the Art of Eight Limbs or the Science of Eight Limbs, is a Thai martial art and full-contact combat sport that uses stand-up striking, sweeps, and various clinching techniques. The name "Art of Eight Limbs" refers to the combined use of fists, elbows, knees and shins. Muay Thai became widespread internationally in the late 20th to 21st century, when Westernised practitioners from Thailand began competing in kickboxing and mixed-rules matches as well as matches under Muay Thai rules around the world. The professional league is governed by the Professional Boxing Association of Thailand, sanctioned by the Sports Authority of Thailand.
Muay Thai is related to other martial art styles of the Indian cultural sphere such as Musti-yuddha, Muay Chaiya, Muay Boran, Muay Lao, Lethwei, Kun Khmer, Benjang and Tomoi. A practitioner of Muay Thai is known as a Nak Muay. Western practitioners in Thailand are sometimes called Nak Muay Farang, meaning "foreign boxer".

Title: Commonwealth of Nations
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commonwealth_of_Nations
Excerpt: The Commonwealth of Nations, often referred to as the British Commonwealth or simply the Commonwealth, is an international association of 56 member states, the vast majority of which are former territories of its predecessor, the British Empire. They are connected through their use of the English language and their cultural and historical ties. Its chief institutions are the Commonwealth Secretariat, focusing on intergovernmental relations, and the Commonwealth Foundation, focusing on non-governmental relations between member nations. Additionally, numerous intergovernmental and civil organisations are officially recognised by the Secretariat.
The Commonwealth dates back to the first half of the 20th century, with the decolonisation of the Empire through the increased self-governance of its territories. It was created as the British Commonwealth of Nations through the Balfour Declaration at the 1926 Imperial Conference, and formalised by the United Kingdom through the Statute of Westminster in 1931. In 1949, the London Declaration allowed India to remain in the association as a republic, with others following. 
Commonwealth citizens enjoy benefits in some member countries, particularly in the United Kingdom, and Commonwealth countries are represented to one another by high commissions rather than embassies. Member states have no legal obligations to one another, though many are linked by various economic, judicial and military relationships. The Commonwealth Charter defines their shared values of democracy, human rights, and the rule of law, as promoted by the quadrennial Commonwealth Games.
The head of the Commonwealth is Charles III. He is king of 15 member states, known as the Commonwealth realms, while 36 other members are republics, and five have different monarchs. Although he became head upon the death of his mother, Elizabeth II, the position is not technically hereditary. A majority of Commonwealth countries are small states, with small island developing states constituting almost half its membership.

Title: Fedor Emelianenko
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fedor_Emelianenko
Excerpt: Fedor Vladimirovich Emelianenko (born 28 September 1976) is a Russian former professional mixed martial artist (MMA), sambist,  judoka and politician. Emelianenko was the PRIDE Heavyweight Champion from 2003 to the organisation's closure in 2007, a four-time combat sambo world champion, a seven-time combat sambo national champion, and two-time Russian national judo bronze medalist, among other championships and accolades. He also competed in RINGS, Strikeforce, M-1 Global, Rizin, and Bellator MMA, and is regarded as the most prominent fighter never to compete in the UFC (Ultimate Fighting Championship). Emelianenko is widely considered to be one of the greatest MMA fighters of all time, consistently ranked as the top heavyweight fighter from 2003 until 2010, and the best fighter of the 2000s. Emelianenko's career helped popularize the sport of MMA in his home country of Russia after gaining attention in Japan, South Korea, the United States, and worldwide.
Emelianenko began his MMA career on May 21, 2000, compiling four straight victories before a controversial loss in December 2000. Emelianenko was unbeaten in his first 28 fights up until June 2010, including wins over four former UFC champions, one future Strikeforce champion, two PRIDE champions, one former and two future K-1 champions, one Pancrase champion, and two Olympic medalists. He originally retired in June 2012 with a record of 34 wins and 4 losses before making his return in December 2015. Emelianenko retired for the second and final time on February 4, 2023, with a record of 40 wins, 7 losses, and 1 no contest, holding wins over seven (one interim) former UFC champions. Fight Matrix currently ranks him as by far the greatest heavyweight mixed martial artist of all time, and the fourth greatest fighter of all time pound-for-pound.
Emelianenko began his political career in 2010, being elected as a deputy of the Belgorod Regional Duma. He subsequently became president of the Russian MMA Union (later honorary president and chairman of the supervisory board), and a staff member of Russia's Council of Physical Fitness & Sports.

Title: Assassination of Charlie Kirk
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_of_Charlie_Kirk
Excerpt: On September 10, 2025, Charlie Kirk, an American right-wing political activist, was assassinated at Utah Valley University in Orem, Utah, while speaking at an outdoor campus debate planned by Turning Point USA, the conservative youth organization he co-founded and led. Kirk was a close ally of US president Donald Trump and a highly influential figure in the MAGA movement.
Shortly after the debate event began, with around 3,000 people in attendance, Kirk was fatally shot in the neck with a single bullet by a sniper positioned on the roof of a building approximately 142 yards (130 m) away. Kirk was taken to a local hospital, where he was pronounced dead at age 31. A manhunt for the shooter ended the following day when Tyler James Robinson, a 22-year-old from Washington, Utah, surrendered to the local sheriff after his parents allegedly convinced him to do so after he confessed to them. Prosecutors charged Robinson with a total of ten criminal counts including aggravated murder, and announced they would seek the death penalty, alleging a politically motivated attack. Robinson pleaded not guilty to all of the charges on September 1, 2026.
The assassination was highlighted as an instance of increasing political violence in the United States and was condemned by national and foreign leaders. Public reactions ranged from heartfelt messages expressing anguish about the political climate to sharply partisan comments. Trump, members of the Republican Party, and other conservative figures blamed members of the Democratic Party and left-wing or liberal beliefs before a suspect was in custody or a motive was identified.
The Trump administration called for a crackdown against what it called "political extremism" on the left, which was widely criticized by free speech advocates and legal experts as using the assassination as a pretext to silence political opposition. A campaign by right-wing organizations and US government agencies resulted in mass firings and disciplinary actions against people seen as celebrating Kirk's death or making critical comments about him in the aftermath of the assassination. Kirk's memorial service was held at State Farm Stadium in Arizona on September 21.