Title: Mowgli
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mowgli
Excerpt: Mowgli (, MOW-glee) is a fictional character and the protagonist of the Mowgli stories featured among Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book stories. He is a feral boy from the Pench area in Seoni, Madhya Pradesh, India, who originally appeared in Kipling's short story "In the Rukh" (collected in Many Inventions, 1893) and then became the most prominent character in the collections The Jungle Book and The Second Jungle Book (1894–1895), which also featured stories about other (on the basis of Marwar king Rao Sihaji) characters.

Title: Cate Blanchett
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cate_Blanchett
Excerpt: Catherine Élise Blanchett ( BLAN-chit; born 14 May 1969) is an Australian actor and producer. Regarded as one of the best performers of her generation, she is recognised for her versatile work across stage and screen, including independent films and blockbusters. She has received numerous accolades, including two Academy Awards, three Actor Awards, four British Academy Film Awards, and four Golden Globes, as well as nominations for three Primetime Emmy Awards, a Laurence Olivier Award and a Tony Award.
A graduate of the National Institute of Dramatic Art, Blanchett began her career on the Australian stage in 1992 and made her feature film debut in 1997. She came to international prominence for her performance as Queen Elizabeth I in the period drama Elizabeth (1998), for which she received her first Academy Award nomination. She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her portrayal of Katharine Hepburn in the biopic The Aviator (2004), and Best Actress for playing a neurotic former socialite in the comedy-drama Blue Jasmine (2013). Her other Oscar-nominated roles were in Notes on a Scandal (2006), I'm Not There (2007), Elizabeth: The Golden Age (2007), Carol (2015), and Tár (2022), making her the most-nominated Australian. Her biggest commercial successes include The Lord of the Rings trilogy (2001–2003), its prequel The Hobbit trilogy (2012–2014), Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008), The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008), Cinderella (2015), Thor: Ragnarok (2017), Ocean's 8 (2018), and Don't Look Up (2021).
Blanchett has performed in over twenty stage productions. She and her husband, Andrew Upton, were the artistic directors of the Sydney Theatre Company from 2008 to 2013. Some of her stage roles during this period were in revivals of A Streetcar Named Desire, Uncle Vanya, Big and Little and The Maids. She made her Broadway debut in 2017 in The Present, for which she was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play. She portrayed Phyllis Schlafly in the FX on Hulu miniseries Mrs. America (2020) and a journalist in the Apple TV+ miniseries Disclaimer (2024), both of which earned her nominations for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Limited or Anthology Series or Movie.
Blanchett is the recipient of several honorary awards. The Australian government awarded her the Centenary Medal in 2001, and she was appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia in 2017. In 2012, she was appointed Chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters by the French government. Blanchett was honoured by the Museum of Modern Art and received the British Film Institute Fellowship in 2015. Time named her one of its 100 most influential people in the world in 2007. In 2018, she was ranked among the world's highest-paid actresses. She also received honorary Doctor of Letters degrees from the University of New South Wales, University of Sydney and Macquarie University.

Title: Tarzan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarzan
Excerpt: Tarzan (John Clayton, Viscount Greystoke) is a fictional character, a feral child raised in one of the Congolian rainforests by the Mangani great apes; he later experiences civilization, only to reject it and return to the wild as a heroic adventurer.
Created by Edgar Rice Burroughs, Tarzan first appeared in the novel Tarzan of the Apes (magazine publication 1912, book publication 1914), and subsequently in 23 sequels, several books by Burroughs and other authors, and innumerable works in other media, both authorized and unauthorized.

Title: List of remakes and adaptations of Disney animated films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_remakes_and_adaptations_of_Disney_animated_films
Excerpt: This is a list of live-action or photorealistic remakes produced by Walt Disney Pictures of its animated films. The list also includes the films' sequels and spin-offs within their fictional universe. This list does not include: remakes of live-action/animation hybrid films (such as Pete's Dragon), the made-for-television film Geppetto, the direct-to-video film The Jungle Book: Mowgli's Story, animated films that were produced by another studio and later adapted as live-action films by Disney, live-action films made by another studio based on the same story as the Disney films, or live-action films based on animated television shows (whether based on Disney shows such as Kim Possible, or Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers, or on animated shows from third-party studios such as George of the Jungle, Mr. Magoo, Inspector Gadget, or Underdog).

Title: List of barefooters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_barefooters
Excerpt: This is a list of notable barefooters, real and fictional; notable people who are known for going barefoot as a part of their public image, and whose barefoot appearance was consistently reported by media or other reliable sources, or depicted in works of fiction dedicated to them.
A barefoot appearance can be a notable characteristic for an individual, as it has been associated with various cultural contexts throughout human history. In Ancient Greece, philosophers like Socrates and Diogenes adopted a barefoot lifestyle, and since the Middle Ages, it was seen as a sign of religious ascetism. In particular, discalceation, the practice of going constantly barefoot or clad only in sandals, is a common feature of Christian mendicant orders, practiced by the Discalced Carmelites (1568), the Feuillant Cistercians (1575), the Trinitarians (1594), the Mercedarians (1604), the Passionists, the Poor Clares and Colettine Poor Clares, and the Descalzas Reales. This is undertaken as part of vows of poverty and humility, as well as a remembrance of Moses on Mount Sinai. Hindu gurus go barefoot to allow their followers to demonstrate their love and respect by pranam, the ceremonial touching of a bare foot. It is also customary in Judaism and some Christian denominations to go barefoot while mourning.
The early 20th century saw the emergence of the barefoot dance movement, pioneered by Isadora Duncan, that anticipated the women's liberation movement and challenged the then prevalent perception of a barefoot appearance as being obscene. In the latter half of the 20th century, many singers, primarily women, have performed barefoot, a tendency that continues in the early 21st century.
Since the 1960s, barefooting has also been associated with counterculture, in particular with the hippie and New Age movements. A July 1967 Time magazine study on hippie philosophy credited the foundation of the hippie movement with historical precedent dating back to the aforementioned religious and spiritual figures of the ancient times, including Diogenes and the sadhu of India.
Following the example of Steve Jobs (who was influenced by the hippie movement), barefooting became a trend in American corporate culture. A number of entrepreneurs maintain a casual public image and appear barefoot or wearing sandals even on formal occasions.
Nowadays people who have a preference for not wearing shoes in public are striving for the recognition of a barefoot lifestyle, against the social stigma associated with barefooting, and for the abolition of laws and regulations that prohibit going barefoot in certain places. In particular, in the 2020s, it became a trend among various celebrities to appear barefoot in public, a tendency reinforced by TikTok.