Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles
Excerpt: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (TMNT) is an American media franchise created by comic book artists Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. It follows Leonardo, Donatello, Raphael and Michelangelo, four anthropomorphic turtle brothers trained in ninjutsu who fight evil in New York City. The franchise encompasses printed media, television series, feature films, video games, and merchandise.
The franchise began as a comic book, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, which Eastman and Laird conceived as a parody of elements popular in superhero comics at the time. The first issue was published in 1984 by Eastman and Laird's company Mirage Studios and was a surprise success. In 1987, Eastman and Laird licensed the characters to Playmates Toys, which developed a line of Turtles action figures. About $1.1 billion worth of Turtles toys were sold between 1988 and 1992, making them the third-bestselling toy figures ever at the time.
The action figures were promoted with an animated series, which premiered in 1987 and ran for almost a decade. It was succeeded by several other television series. The first Turtles video game was released in 1989, the first of several developed by the Japanese company Konami. The first Turtles film, released in 1990, became the highest-grossing independent film up to that point.
Eastman sold his share of the Turtles franchise to Laird in 2000. In 2009, Laird sold it to Viacom, now Paramount Skydance Corporation. The franchise has continued with a new comic book series, television series, films and video games.

Title: List of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1987 TV series) episodes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_(1987_TV_series)_episodes
Excerpt: The following is an episode list for the animated television series Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles which premiered in 1987. In total, 193 episodes aired between 1987 and 1996. The first three seasons were aired in syndication. CBS aired the rest of the series on Saturday mornings.
From August 14, 2012, and onwards, all ten seasons are available on DVD in North America from Lionsgate Home Entertainment, the successor to Family Home Entertainment, which released the series' VHS tapes in North America (early Lionsgate DVD releases were co-branded with FHE).

Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_(1990_film)
Excerpt: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is a 1990 American superhero comedy film  directed by Steve Barron and written by Todd W. Langen and Bobby Herbeck. Based on the comic book characters created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird, it is the first film adaptation of the characters. The story follows four anthropomorphic mutant turtles who must use their ninja training to save their master and adoptive father Splinter from his long-lost foe the Shredder and his Foot Clan of ninjas. They are aided by their new human allies April O'Neil (Judith Hoag) and Casey Jones (Elias Koteas).
The film adapts the early Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles comics, with several elements taken from the animated series airing at the time. Filming took place in 1989 in North Carolina and New York City. Many major studios turned down distribution for the film, worrying that it could be a box office disappointment. New Line Cinema, at that time a small independent production company, acquired the rights halfway through production. The turtle costumes were developed by Jim Henson's Creature Shop, one of Jim Henson's last projects before his death shortly after the premiere.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles was released in the United States on March 30, 1990, by New Line Cinema, and received mixed reviews from critics. It grossed $202 million on a budget of $14 million, and was the highest-grossing independent film up to that time and the ninth-highest-grossing film of 1990. It was followed by Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze (1991) and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III (1993).

Title: TMNT (video game)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TMNT_(video_game)
Excerpt: TMNT is an action video game featuring the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. It was developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft for Xbox 360, Wii, PlayStation 2, GameCube, Nintendo DS, and PlayStation Portable, as well as for Microsoft Windows on March 20, 2007. It is based on the 2007 film of the same name. A PlayStation 3 port was also planned, and shown at press events, but it was never released.

Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles in film
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_in_film
Excerpt: The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, a superhero team created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird, have appeared in seven theatrical feature-length films since their debut. The first film was released in 1990, at the height of the franchise's popularity. Despite mixed reviews from critics, it was a commercial success that garnered two direct sequels, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze in 1991 and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III in 1993, both of which were modest successes.  An animated film titled TMNT was released in 2007.
Following the purchase of the Turtles franchise by Viacom in 2009, Paramount Pictures gained the exclusive theatrical film rights. The studio's first film which served as a reboot of the series was released in 2014. A sequel, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows, was released in 2016 and was the first film in the franchise to be considered financially unsuccessful. An animated reboot film, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem was released in 2023. The seven films have grossed $1.3 billion worldwide.