Title: Neil Gaiman
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neil_Gaiman
Excerpt: Neil Richard MacKinnon Gaiman (; born Neil Richard Gaiman; 10 November 1960) is an English author of short fiction, novels, comic books, audio theatre, and screenplays. His works include the comic series The Sandman (1989–1996) and the novels Good Omens (1990), Stardust (1999), American Gods (2001), Coraline (2002), Anansi Boys (2005), The Graveyard Book (2008) and The Ocean at the End of the Lane (2013). He co-created the TV adaptations of Good Omens and The Sandman.
Gaiman's awards include Hugo, Nebula, and Bram Stoker awards and Newbery and Carnegie medals. He is the first author to win the Newbery and the Carnegie medals for the same work, The Graveyard Book. The Ocean at the End of the Lane was voted Book of the Year in the British National Book Awards, and it was adapted into an acclaimed stage play at the Royal National Theatre in London.
Beginning in 2024, news outlets published sexual assault accusations against Gaiman by numerous women. This affected or halted production on several adaptations of his work. One accuser sued Gaiman and his estranged wife Amanda Palmer for rape and human trafficking. Gaiman has denied these allegations.

Title: Science fiction
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Science_fiction
Excerpt: Science fiction (often shortened to sci-fi or abbreviated SF or sf) is the genre of speculative fiction that imagines advanced and futuristic changes in technology, scientific knowledge, or biological systems. The elements common to science fiction have increased over time: from space exploration, extraterrestrial life, time travel, and robotics; to parallel universes, dystopian societies, and biological manipulations; and, most recently, to information technology, transhumanism, posthumanism, and environmental challenges. Science fiction often explores human responses to the consequences of these types of projected or imagined scientific advances.
The  definition of science fiction has been disputed among authors, critics, scholars, and readers. It contains many subgenres, including hard science fiction, which emphasizes scientific accuracy, and soft science fiction, which focuses on social sciences. Other subgenres are: space opera, which emphasizes pure adventure in a universe in which space travel is common; cyberpunk, which explores the interface between technology and society; and climate fiction, which addresses environmental issues.
Precedents for science fiction are claimed to exist as far back as antiquity. Some books written in the Scientific Revolution and the Enlightenment Age were considered early science-fantasy stories. The modern genre arose primarily in the 19th and early 20th centuries, when popular writers began looking to technological progress for inspiration and speculation. Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, written in 1818, is often credited as the first true science fiction novel. Jules Verne and H. G. Wells are pivotal figures in the genre's development. In the 20th century, the genre grew during the Golden Age of Science Fiction, and it expanded with the introduction of space operas, dystopian literature, and pulp magazines.
Science fiction has come to influence not only literature, but also film, television, and culture at large. Science fiction can criticize present-day society and explore alternatives, as well as provide entertainment and inspire a sense of wonder.

Title: Walter Hill
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Hill
Excerpt: Walter Hill (born January 10, 1942) is an American filmmaker, known for his action films and revival of the Western genre.
He has directed such films as The Driver, The Warriors, Southern Comfort, 48 Hrs. and its sequel Another 48 Hrs., Streets of Fire and Red Heat, and wrote the screenplay for the crime drama The Getaway. He has also directed several episodes of television series such as Tales from the Crypt and Deadwood and produced films in the Alien franchise.
He founded Brandywine Productions with David Giler and Gordon Carroll.
Hill said in an interview that "every film I've done has been a Western", and elaborated in another that "the Western is ultimately a stripped down moral universe that is, whatever the dramatic problems are, beyond the normal avenues of social control and social alleviation of the problem, and I like to do that even within contemporary stories".

Title: Auteur
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Auteur
Excerpt: An auteur (; French: [otœʁ], lit. 'author') is an artist with a distinctive approach, usually a film director who is considered the most important figure in filmmaking, and equivalent to the "author" of a novel or a play, such that they can manifest a personal style, vision, and thematic focus across a diverse body of work.
The concept of auteurism originated in French film criticism of the late 1940s and '50s, and derived from the writings of André Bazin, Alexandre Astruc and François Truffaut. In 1962, American film critic Andrew Sarris popularized the concept in the United States, calling it the auteur theory. In the 1970s, partly due to the wide acceptance of the auteur theory, the New Hollywood era emerged with studios granting directors greater leeway. By the 1980s, however, several costly box-office failures prompted studios to take back a degree of control from directors.
Pauline Kael argued against auteur theory, saying that "auteur" directors depend heavily on the contributions of others, like cinematographers. David Kipen stated that the screenwriter is a film's main author, a viewpoint termed "Schreiber theory". Aljean Harmetz listed Casablanca (1942) as an instance where the producer and studio head exerted major creative control. Georges Sadoul deemed a film's putative "author" could even be an actor, but that cinema is at its core a collaborative art. Genre theory counters the concept of auteur theory by showing that directors can work in genres that do not require an auteur style to film them. One such well-known genre filmmaker is David Cronenberg, who has mainly worked in body horror subgenre.
In French cinema in the 1950s, when the New Wave began, few auteurs had emerged which was noted by Truffaut in his 1954 essay titled "A certain tendency in French cinema". Some of these film auteurs included Robert Bresson, Jean Cocteau, Abel Gance, and Jacques Tati. The auteur concept has also been applied to non-film directors, such as popular music producers namely Phil Spector, considered the first music auteur and Brian Wilson, who was credited to be first pop musician to write, arrange, produce and perform his own material. Another media where auteur concept has been applied is video games, particularly video game designers and developers. Some of them are Hideo Kojima, Japan's pre-eminent auteur game designer, Hidetaka Miyazaki, who is known for having "total direction" and a defined style for his games such as Dark Souls, and Tim Schafer, whose work on Brütal Legend had shown distinct touches which are "snappy dialog, quirky characters and strange dreamlike environments".

Title: Nautical fiction
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nautical_fiction
Excerpt: Nautical fiction, frequently also naval fiction, sea fiction, naval adventure fiction or maritime fiction, is a genre of literature with a setting on or near the sea, that focuses on the human relationship to the sea and sea voyages and highlights nautical culture in these environments. The settings of nautical fiction vary greatly, including merchant ships, liners, naval ships, fishing vessels, life boats, etc., along with sea ports and fishing villages. When describing nautical fiction, scholars most frequently refer to novels, novellas, and short stories, sometimes under the name of sea novels or sea stories. These works are sometimes adapted for the theatre, film and television.
The development of nautical fiction follows with the development of the English language novel and while the tradition is mainly British and North American, there are also significant works from literatures in Japan, France, Scandinavia, and other Western traditions. Though the treatment of themes and settings related to the sea and maritime culture is common throughout the history of western literature, nautical fiction, as a distinct genre, was first pioneered by James Fenimore Cooper (The Pilot, 1824) and Frederick Marryat (Frank Mildmay, 1829 and Mr Midshipman Easy 1836) in the early 19th century. There were 18th century and earlier precursors that have nautical settings, but few are as richly developed as subsequent works in this genre. The genre has evolved to include notable literary works like Herman Melville's Moby-Dick (1851), Joseph Conrad's Lord Jim (1899–1900), popular fiction like C.S. Forester's Hornblower series (1937–67), and works by authors that straddle the divide between popular and literary fiction, like Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin series (1970–2004).
Because of the historical dominance of nautical culture by men, they are usually the central characters, except for works that feature ships carrying women passengers. For this reason, nautical fiction is often marketed for men. Nautical fiction usually includes distinctive themes, such as a focus on masculinity and heroism, investigations of social hierarchies, and the psychological struggles of the individual in the hostile environment of the sea. Stylistically, readers of the genre expect an emphasis on adventure, accurate representation of maritime culture, and use of nautical language.
Works of nautical fiction may be romances, such as historical romance, fantasy, and adventure fiction, and also may overlap with the genres of war fiction, children's literature, travel narratives (such as the Robinsonade), the social problem novel and psychological fiction.