Title: Round Midnight (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Round_Midnight_(film)
Excerpt: Round Midnight is a 1986 American musical drama film directed by Bertrand Tavernier and written by Tavernier and David Rayfiel. It stars Dexter Gordon, with a soundtrack by Herbie Hancock. The title comes from Thelonious Monk's 1943 composition "'Round Midnight", which is featured in this film in a Hancock arrangement.
The protagonist jazzman, Dale Turner, is based on a composite of real-life jazz legends Lester Young (tenor sax) and Bud Powell (piano). While the film is fictionalized, it is drawn directly from the memoir/biography Dance of the Infidels written by French author Francis Paudras, who had befriended Powell during his Paris expatriate days and on whom the character Francis was based.
Gordon was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor and won a Grammy for the film's soundtrack entitled The Other Side of Round Midnight in the category for Best Instrumental Jazz Performance, Soloist. Hancock won the Academy Award for Best Original Score. The soundtrack was released in two parts: Round Midnight and The Other Side of Round Midnight.

Title: 13 (2010 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/13_(2010_film)
Excerpt: 13 is a 2010 American psychological crime thriller film directed by Géla Babluani (who also directed the original), stars Sam Riley, Ray Winstone, 50 Cent, Mickey Rourke and Jason Statham. It is a remake of the 2005 Georgian-French film 13 Tzameti.

Title: The Marriage-Go-Round (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Marriage-Go-Round_(film)
Excerpt: The Marriage-Go-Round is a 1961 DeLuxe Color CinemaScope American comedy film directed by Walter Lang and written by Leslie Stevens. It is based on the 1958 play The Marriage-Go-Round, also penned by Stevens. The film stars Susan Hayward, James Mason, Julie Newmar, Robert Paige and June Clayworth. It was released on January 6, 1961, by 20th Century Fox.
It was filmed on location at Florida Southern College in Lakeland, Florida and at Stage 4 on the Twentieth Century-Fox lot.

Title: Another Round
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Another_Round
Excerpt: Another Round (Danish: Druk, lit. 'Binge drinking') is a 2020 black comedy-drama film directed by Thomas Vinterberg, co-written with Tobias Lindholm. Starring Mads Mikkelsen, Thomas Bo Larsen, Magnus Millang, and Lars Ranthe, the film follows four high school teachers who experiment with maintaining a constant level of alcohol in their blood to boost creativity and confidence.
Premiering at the 2020 Toronto International Film Festival, the film won the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film and multiple other accolades. The film is dedicated to Vinterberg's daughter, Ida, who died during production.

Title: The Round Tower (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Round_Tower_(film)
Excerpt: The Round Tower is a British television serial of 1998, produced by Festival Films for Tyne Tees Television, directed by Alan Grint and based on the novel of the same name by Catherine Cookson.