Title: The Phantom of the Opera (1986 musical)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Phantom_of_the_Opera_(1986_musical)
Excerpt: The Phantom of the Opera is a musical with music by Andrew Lloyd Webber, lyrics by Charles Hart, additional lyrics by Richard Stilgoe, and a libretto by Lloyd Webber and Stilgoe. Inspired by the 1910 novel by Gaston Leroux, it tells the tragic story of beautiful soprano Christine Daaé, who becomes the obsession of a mysterious and disfigured musical genius living in the subterranean labyrinth beneath the Paris Opera House.
The musical opened in London's West End in 1986 and on Broadway in New York in 1988, in a production directed by Harold Prince and starring English classical soprano Sarah Brightman (Lloyd Webber's then-wife) as Christine Daaé, screen and stage star Michael Crawford as the Phantom, and international stage performer Steve Barton as Raoul. It won the 1986 Olivier Award and the 1988 Tony Award for Best Musical, with Crawford winning the Olivier and Tony for Best Actor in a Musical. A film adaptation, directed by Joel Schumacher, was released in 2004.
The Phantom of the Opera is the longest running show in Broadway history, and celebrated its 10,000th performance on 11 February 2012, becoming the first Broadway production in history to do so. It is the second longest-running West End musical, after Les Misérables, and the third longest-running West End show overall, after The Mousetrap. With total estimated worldwide gross receipts of over $6 billion and total Broadway gross of over $1 billion, The Phantom of the Opera was the most financially successful entertainment event until The Lion King surpassed it in 2014. By 2019, it had been seen by over 140 million people in 183 cities across 41 countries.
The original West End production at His Majesty's Theatre, London, ended its run in March 2020 due to the shutdown of theatres resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. A scaled-down, revised staging opened in the same theatre in July 2021, with a "smaller orchestra and redesigned set". The original Broadway production played its final performance on 16 April 2023.

Title: List of people from Texas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_people_from_Texas
Excerpt: The following are notable people who were either born, raised or have lived for a significant period of time in the U.S. state of Texas.

Title: Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sweeney_Todd:_The_Demon_Barber_of_Fleet_Street
Excerpt: Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (often referred to simply as Sweeney Todd) is a 1979 musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and book by Hugh Wheeler. It is based on the 1970 play Sweeney Todd by Christopher Bond. The character of Sweeney Todd first appeared in a Victorian penny dreadful titled The String of Pearls.
Sweeney Todd opened on Broadway in 1979 and in the West End in 1980. It won the Tony Award for Best Musical and Olivier Award for Best New Musical. It has been revived in many productions and inspired a film adaptation. A panel of five American critics assembled by New York magazine in 2011 described the musical as being among the three "greatest" musicals.

Title: List of University of Pennsylvania people
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_University_of_Pennsylvania_people
Excerpt: This is a working list of notable faculty, alumni and scholars of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, United States.

Title: Anime-influenced animation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anime-influenced_animation
Excerpt: Anime-influenced animation, also known colloquially as animesque, is a type of non-Japanese work of animation that is noticeably similar to or inspired by anime. Generally, the term anime refers to a style of animation originating from Japan. As Japanese anime became increasingly popular, Western animation studios began implementing some visual stylizations typical in anime—such as exaggerated facial expressions, "super deformed" versions of characters, and white radial lines appearing on screen when something shocking, frightening, or distressing occurs.

Although outside Japan, anime is specifically used to mean animation from Japan or as a Japanese-disseminated animation style often characterized by colorful graphics, vibrant characters and fantastical themes, there is debate over whether the culturally abstract approach to the word's meaning may open up the possibility of anime produced in countries other than Japan. Additionally, anime-influenced series are occasionally defined as "anime" by some sources, in an attempt to classify all anime-styled works of non-Japanese origin.