Title: Company (musical)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Company_(musical)
Excerpt: Company is a musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and book by George Furth. The original 1970 production was nominated for a record-setting 14 Tony Awards, winning six. Company was among the first book musicals to deal with contemporary dating, marriage, and divorce, and is a notable example of a concept musical lacking a linear plot. In a series of vignettes, Company follows bachelor Bobby interacting with his married friends, who throw a party for his 35th birthday.

Title: Neil Patrick Harris
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neil_Patrick_Harris
Excerpt: Neil Patrick Harris (born June 15, 1973) is an American actor, singer, writer, producer, television host, comedian and magician. Primarily known for his comedic television roles and dramatic and musical stage roles, he has received multiple accolades throughout his career, including a Tony Award and five Primetime Emmy Awards, and nominations for a Grammy Award and three Actor Awards.
On television, he is known for playing the title character on the ABC series Doogie Howser, M.D. (1989–1993), for which he was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Musical or Comedy, as well as Barney Stinson on the CBS series How I Met Your Mother (2005–2014), for which he was nominated for four Emmy Awards, and Count Olaf on the Netflix series A Series of Unfortunate Events (2017–2019). He won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series for his role on Glee (2010). Harris is also known for portraying the title character in Joss Whedon's musical Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog (2008), and a fictional version of himself in the Harold & Kumar film series (2004–2011). His other films include Starship Troopers (1997), The Smurfs (2011), The Smurfs 2 (2013), and Gone Girl (2014).
On stage, he starred as Mark Cohen in the national tour of Rent (1997), before making his Broadway debut in the David Auburn play Proof (2002). He went on to win the Tony Award for Best Leading Actor in a Musical playing the title role in the rock musical Hedwig and the Angry Inch (2014). Harris has hosted numerous award shows, including the Tony Awards in 2009, 2011, 2012, and 2013, the Primetime Emmy Awards in 2009 and 2013, and the Academy Awards in 2015. He was named one of Time magazine's 100 Most Influential People in 2010.

Title: Hedwig and the Angry Inch (musical)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hedwig_and_the_Angry_Inch_(musical)
Excerpt: Hedwig and the Angry Inch is a rock musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Trask and a book by John Cameron Mitchell. The musical follows Hedwig Robinson, the genderqueer East German singer of a fictional rock and roll band. The story draws on Mitchell's life as the child of a U.S. Army major general who once commanded the U.S. sector of occupied West Berlin. The character of Hedwig was inspired by a German divorced U.S. Army wife who was Mitchell's family babysitter and moonlighted as a sex worker at her trailer park home in Junction City, Kansas. The music is steeped in the androgynous 1970s glam rock style of David Bowie (who co-produced the Los Angeles production of the show), as well as the work of John Lennon and early punk performers Lou Reed and Iggy Pop.
The musical opened off-Broadway in 1998, and won the Obie Award and Outer Critics Circle Award for Best Off-Broadway Musical. The production ran for two years, and was remounted with various casts by the original creative team in other US cities. Following a West End production in 2000, the musical was produced throughout the world in hundreds of stage productions.
The show's first Broadway incarnation, opening April 2014 at the Belasco Theatre, won Best Revival of a Musical at the 68th Tony Awards. The Broadway closing in September 2015 was followed by a U.S. national tour, launching at San Francisco's Golden Gate Theatre in October 2016 and ending at the Kennedy Center in July 2017.

Title: 63rd Tony Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/63rd_Tony_Awards
Excerpt: The 63rd Annual Tony Awards, which recognized Broadway productions of the 2008-2009 season, were presented on June 7, 2009 at Radio City Music Hall in New York City. The ceremony was broadcast by CBS, hosted by Neil Patrick Harris.
The cut-off date for eligibility for the awards was April 30, 2009. Nominations were announced on May 5, 2009 by Cynthia Nixon and Lin-Manuel Miranda. Of the musicals, Billy Elliot the Musical received 15 nominations, every one that it was eligible for, which tied for the most received by any Broadway production until this record was surpassed by Hamilton (16), followed by the Pulitzer Prize for Drama winner Next to Normal with eleven.  Among the nominees for Best Revival of a Musical, Hair had the most nominations, with eight.  Of the plays, the revivals Mary Stuart and The Norman Conquests tied for the most nominations, with seven each.  All four stars of God of Carnage were nominated, as was the play itself.  Billy Elliot won 10 awards, the most of the night, including Best Musical. Next to Normal and God of Carnage each won three.
The Isabelle Stevenson Award, a non-competitive award named after the late president of the American Theatre Wing, was presented for the first time. Its purpose is to recognize individuals from the theatre community who have volunteered time to one or more humanitarian, social service, or charitable organizations. The first recipient of this honor was Phyllis Newman. This was the first non-competitive category to be introduced since the Tony Honors for Excellence in the Theatre was established in 1990.
The broadcast won the 2009 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Special Class Programs. The telecast also was nominated in the category of Outstanding Art Direction for Variety, Music or Nonfiction Programming.

Title: Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spider-Man:_Turn_Off_the_Dark
Excerpt: Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark is a musical with music and lyrics by Bono and the Edge of Irish rock band U2 and a book by Julie Taymor, Glen Berger, and Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa. Based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man, the story incorporates elements of the 2002 film Spider-Man, the 2004 film Spider-Man 2 and the Greek myth of Arachne. It tells Spider-Man's origin story, his romance with Mary Jane Watson, and his battles with the Green Goblin. It includes highly technical stunts, such as aerial combat scenes and actors swinging from "webs".
The Broadway production was notorious for its many troubles. Several actors were injured performing stunts and the opening night was repeatedly delayed, causing some critics to review the "unfinished" production in protest. Following negative reviews, Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark suspended performances for a month to retool the show. Aguirre-Sacasa, a longtime Spider-Man comics writer, was brought in to revise the story and book. The director, Julie Taymor, whose vision had driven the concept of the musical, was replaced by the creative consultant Philip William McKinley. By the time Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark officially opened on June 14, 2011, it had set the record for the longest preview period in Broadway history, with 182 performances.
Critical reception of the opening was better than for the previews, but mixed, with praise for the visual effects but little enthusiasm for the book and score. Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark is the most expensive Broadway production in history, with a budget of $75 million. Julie Taymor contested reports of the budget on the BBC Radio 4 program 'This Cultural Life' claiming that the production cost was overstated and instead comparable to the Shrek musical. In the week ending January 1, 2012, it held the box office record for Broadway sales in one week, taking in $2.941 million over nine performances, until it was beaten by Wicked at the end of the year, with $2.947 million. The production closed on January 4, 2014, at a massive financial loss.