Title: Tommy (The Who album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tommy_(The_Who_album)
Excerpt: Tommy is the fourth studio album by the English rock band the Who, released on 19 May 1969. Written primarily by guitarist Pete Townshend, Tommy is a double album and an early rock opera that tells the story of the fictional Tommy Walker and his path to becoming a spiritual leader and messianic figure.
Townshend came up with the concept of Tommy after being introduced to the work of Indian spiritual teacher Meher Baba, and he attempted to translate Baba's ideas into music. Recording of the album began in September 1968, but took six months to complete as material needed to be arranged and re-recorded in the studio. The Who promoted the album's release with an extensive tour, including a live version of Tommy, which lasted throughout 1969 and 1970. Key gigs from the tour included appearances at Woodstock, the 1969 Isle of Wight Festival, the University of Leeds, the Metropolitan Opera House, and the 1970 Isle of Wight Festival. The live performances of Tommy drew critical praise and revitalised the band's career. 
Upon its release, Tommy was acclaimed by critics, who hailed it as the Who's breakthrough. Several writers view it as an important and influential album in the history of rock music. In 1998, Tommy was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame.
Subsequently, the rock opera was developed into other media, including a ballet in Montreal in 1970, a Seattle Opera production in 1971, an orchestral version by Lou Reizner in 1972, a film directed by Ken Russell and featuring Jack Nicholson and Oliver Reed in 1975, and a Broadway musical in 1992. 
Tommy has been reissued several times on CD, including a remix by Jon Astley in 1996, a deluxe Super Audio CD in 2003, and a super deluxe box set in 2013, including previously unreleased demos and live material.

Title: David Z (producer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Z_(producer)
Excerpt: David Bruce Rivkin (March 25, 1948 – August 2, 2026), professionally known as David Z, was an American record producer, engineer and songwriter from Minneapolis, Minnesota. He is best known for his long-standing work with Prince and contributed to albums by Etta James, Billy Idol, BoDeans, Buddy Guy, and Neneh Cherry. He is considered to be an architect of the Minneapolis sound.
Rivkin was a member of Lipps Inc, with whom he had a U.S. number-one and UK number two hit with "Funkytown" (1980). He produced Fine Young Cannibals' "She Drives Me Crazy" (1988), creating the song's signature snare drum sound.

Title: Southside (music producer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southside_(music_producer)
Excerpt: Joshua Howard Luellen (born February 2, 1989), known professionally as Southside (also known as Sizzle or Yung Sizzle), is an American record producer, rapper and songwriter. Based in Atlanta, he is recognized in the music industry for his aggressive, trap-infused production work for prominent hip hop artists. After meeting hometown rapper Waka Flocka Flame, Luellen signed with his record label Brick Squad Monopoly—an imprint of Gucci Mane's 1017 Records—as in-house talent in 2010. Luellen and labelmate, fellow producer Lex Luger established the production team 808 Mafia that same year; it was credited on several commercially successful releases throughout the remaining decade. 
As a lead artist, Luellen signed with Epic Records to release his collaborative album with G Herbo, Swervo (2018), which peaked at number 15 on the Billboard 200. His 2022 single, "Hold That Heat" (with Future featuring Travis Scott) marked his first entry—at number 57—on the Billboard Hot 100. Despite not performing on both, he has released several mixtapes as a recording artist.

Title: Detail (music producer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Detail_(music_producer)
Excerpt: Noel Christopher Fisher (born October 9, 1978), professionally known as Detail, is an American record producer, singer, songwriter and rapper. Hailing from Detroit, Michigan, Detail is best known for producing several hit singles, including "Sexy Can I" by Ray J, "I'm So Paid" by Akon, "How to Love" by Lil Wayne, "Drunk in Love" and "711" by Beyoncé, and "We Dem Boyz" by Wiz Khalifa. He released his debut studio album, Noel in December 2015.

Title: Sumin (musician)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sumin_(musician)
Excerpt: Park Su-min, known professionally as Sumin (Korean: 수민) is a South Korean singer-songwriter and record producer. She first came to prominence with the single "곤란한 노래" (The Gonlan Song), one of the tracks on her Miniseries collaboration album with fellow producer Slom. The song earned the duo the Korean Music Award for Best R&B and Soul Song.