Title: Raiders of the Lost Ark
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raiders_of_the_Lost_Ark
Excerpt: Raiders of the Lost Ark is a 1981 American action-adventure film directed by Steven Spielberg and written by Lawrence Kasdan, based on a story by George Lucas and Philip Kaufman. Set in 1936, the film stars Harrison Ford as Indiana Jones, a globetrotting archaeologist vying with Nazi German forces to recover the long-lost Ark of the Covenant which is said to make an army invincible. Teaming up with his tough former romantic interest Marion Ravenwood (Karen Allen), Jones races to stop a rival archaeologist, René Belloq (Paul Freeman), from guiding the Nazis to the Ark and its power.
Lucas conceived Raiders of the Lost Ark in the early 1970s. Seeking to modernize the serial films of the early 20th century, he developed the idea further with Kaufman, who suggested the Ark as the film's goal. Lucas eventually focused on developing his 1977 film Star Wars. Development on Raiders of the Lost Ark resumed that year when he shared the idea with Spielberg, who joined the project several months later. While the pair had ideas for set pieces and stunts for the film, they hired Kasdan to fill in the narrative gaps between them. Principal photography began in June 1980 on a $20 million budget, and concluded that September. Filming took place on sets at Elstree Studios, England, and on location mainly in La Rochelle, France, Tunisia, and Hawaii.
Pre-release polling showed little audience interest in the film leading up to its release date on June 12, 1981, especially compared to Superman II. However, Raiders of the Lost Ark became the highest-grossing film of the year, earning approximately $354 million worldwide, and played in some theaters for over a year. It was also a critical success, receiving praise for its set pieces, humor, and action sequences. The film was nominated for several awards, and won five Academy Awards, seven Saturn Awards, and one BAFTA, among other accolades.
Raiders of the Lost Ark is considered by critics to be one of the greatest films ever made and has had a lasting influence on popular culture, spawning a host of imitators across several media and inspiring other filmmakers. The United States Library of Congress selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry in 1999. Raiders of the Lost Ark is the first entry in what became the Indiana Jones franchise, which includes four more films—Temple of Doom (1984), Last Crusade (1989), Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008), and Dial of Destiny (2023)—a television series, video games, comic books, novels, theme park attractions, and toys.

Title: Jean Giraud
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean_Giraud
Excerpt: Jean Henri Gaston Giraud (French: [ʒiʁo]; 8 May 1938 – 10 March 2012) was a French artist, cartoonist, and writer who worked in the Franco-Belgian bandes dessinées (BD) tradition. Giraud garnered worldwide acclaim predominantly under the pseudonym Mœbius (; French: [møbjys]) for his fantasy/science-fiction work, and to a slightly lesser extent as Gir (French: [ʒiʁ]), which he used for his Western-themed work. Esteemed by Federico Fellini, Stan Lee, and Hayao Miyazaki, among others, he has been described as the most influential bande dessinée artist after Hergé.
His most famous body of work as Gir concerns the Blueberry series, created with writer Jean-Michel Charlier, featuring one of the first antiheroes in Western comics. As Mœbius, he achieved worldwide renown with science-fiction and fantasy comics drawn in a highly imaginative, surreal, almost abstract style. These works include Arzach and the Airtight Garage of Jerry Cornelius. He also collaborated with avant garde filmmaker Alejandro Jodorowsky for an unproduced adaptation of Dune and the comic-book series The Incal.
Mœbius also contributed storyboards and concept designs to several science-fiction and fantasy films, such as Alien, Tron, The Fifth Element, and The Abyss. Blueberry was adapted for the screen in 2004 by French director Jan Kounen.

Title: List of musician and band name etymologies
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_musician_and_band_name_etymologies
Excerpt: This is a list of band names, with their name origins explained.

Title: Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harley_Davidson_and_the_Marlboro_Man
Excerpt: Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is a 1991 American neo-Western biker buddy action film directed by Simon Wincer and starring Mickey Rourke, Don Johnson, Chelsea Field, Tom Sizemore, Vanessa Williams (who also contributes to the film's soundtrack), Daniel Baldwin, Giancarlo Esposito and Robert Ginty.
Set in the near future United States, it concerns two friends–a melancholic biker and a world-weary bullrider–who rob the bank threatening their favorite bar with foreclosure in hopes of paying it off with its own money, only to discover that it is a front for a criminal cartel. It has frequently been described as a modern re-imagining of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.
The film was released by on August 23, 1991, to mostly negative reviews, and was a financial failure, grossing $7.4 million at the domestic box office. In the years since, it has developed a moderate cult following.

Title: 2025 in the United Kingdom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_in_the_United_Kingdom
Excerpt: Events from the year 2025 in the United Kingdom.