Title: Storm (Marvel Comics)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Storm_(Marvel_Comics)
Excerpt: Storm is a superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Len Wein and artist Dave Cockrum, the character first appeared in Giant-Size X-Men #1 (May 1975). Descended from a long line of African witch-priestesses, Storm is a member of a fictional subspecies of humans born with superhuman abilities known as mutants. She is able to control the weather and atmosphere and is considered to be one of the most powerful mutants on the planet. Storm is a member of the X-Men, a group of mutant heroes fighting for peace and equal rights between mutants and humans. She was one of the most prominently featured X-Men characters in the 1980s, at which time it was the best-selling comic book in America. During this decade, she also acted as the acknowledged leader of the team.
Born Ororo Munroe to a tribal princess of Kenya, and a Black-American photojournalist father, Storm was raised in Harlem, New York City, and Cairo, Egypt. She was made an orphan after her parents were killed when a plane crashed into their house. This incident traumatized Ororo, leaving her with claustrophobia that she would struggle with for decades. Under the tutelage of a master thief, an adolescent Ororo became a skilled pickpocket. By coincidence, she met the powerful mutant Professor X. Professor X later convinced Ororo to join the X-Men and use her abilities for a greater cause and purpose. Possessing natural leadership skills and formidable powers of her own, Storm has been a member of teams such as the Avengers and the Fantastic Four, as well as the X-Men. Storm is also a part of a highly promoted romantic relationship with Black Panther. While she was married to him, she was also made queen consort of the African nation of Wakanda. While she lost the title when the marriage was annulled, she has maintained her relationship with Black Panther in many subsequent stories.
Storm is the first Black leader of a Marvel superhero team, as well as the first female leader of a Marvel superhero team. She is the second Black female superhero for Marvel, after Misty Knight, who was created two months earlier. Storm is one of Marvel's most notable, powerful, and popular female heroes.
One of the most prominent characters in the X-Men franchise, Storm has appeared in various X-Men-related media, including animation, video games, and films. Alison Sealy-Smith voiced Storm in X-Men: The Animated Series (1992–1997) and reprises the role in its revival X-Men '97 (2024–present) and What If…? (2024). Halle Berry and Alexandra Shipp both portrayed Storm in 20th Century Fox's live-action X-Men film series (2000–2019), and Maya Boyd will portray her in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, starting with the untitled X-Men film (2028).

Title: Inhumans
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inhumans
Excerpt: The Inhumans are a superhuman race of super beings appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The comic book series has usually focused more specifically on the adventures of the Inhuman Royal Family, and many people associate the name "Inhumans" with this particular team of superpowered characters.
The Inhumans first appeared in Fantastic Four #45 (December 1965), though members Medusa and Gorgon appeared in earlier issues of that series (#36 and #44, respectively). Their home, the city of Attilan, was first mentioned years earlier, in a Tuk the Caveboy story written and drawn by Jack Kirby that appeared in Captain America Comics #1 (March 1941). The city was described as the home of a race that was evolutionarily advanced when human beings were still in the Stone Age.
The Inhuman Royal Family has been adapted to numerous Marvel animated series and video games over the years.
Inhuman characters were introduced in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) in live action in the second season of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., while the Inhuman Royal Family is featured in the television series Inhumans, which premiered in 2017; the latter show was critically panned and lasted only one season. Earlier, a proposed film adaptation of the Inhumans was announced in 2014 by Marvel Studios but was later removed from its slate and never came to fruition. The Inhuman race was represented by the appearance of Black Bolt in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (2022), portrayed by Anson Mount who reprised his role from the television series.

Title: Marvel Television
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marvel_Television
Excerpt: Marvel Television was an American television production company responsible for live-action and animated television shows and direct-to-DVD series based on characters from Marvel Comics. Marvel Television was formed as a division of Marvel Entertainment in June 2010, with producer Jeph Loeb serving as its executive vice president and head of television to produce shows for Marvel. The division was based at affiliate ABC Studios' location, and collaborated with the broadcast network ABC, streaming services Netflix and Hulu, and cable channel Freeform to release many of their series as a part of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) media franchise, a shared universe created by the film studio Marvel Studios. Animated series from Marvel Television were produced through Marvel Animation, and the division also collaborated with 20th Century Fox to produce shows based on the X-Men franchise such as Legion and The Gifted.
Marvel Television and Marvel Studios were separated in August 2015, before this division was transferred to Marvel Studios from Marvel Entertainment in October 2019 and was folded into the former two months later. The "Marvel Television" name is currently used as a separate brand and production label by Marvel Studios.

Title: List of Marvel Cinematic Universe television series (Marvel Television)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Marvel_Cinematic_Universe_television_series_(Marvel_Television)
Excerpt: The Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) television series are American superhero television shows produced by Marvel Television—not to be confused with the Marvel Studios label of the same name—based on characters that appear in publications by Marvel Comics. The series are set in, or inspired by, the shared universe of the MCU film franchise.
The MCU first expanded to television after Marvel Television was formed in 2010, with that studio producing 12 series with ABC Studios and its production division ABC Signature Studios. These were released from September 2013 to August 2020 across broadcast on ABC, streaming on Netflix and Hulu, and cable on Freeform. The main ABC series were inspired by the films and featured film characters, while a connected group of series for Netflix crossed over with each other. Young adult-focused series were produced for Freeform and Hulu. Numerous additional series were planned that never materialized, including two unaired pilots as well as a group of series for Hulu called "Adventure into Fear" that were planned before Marvel Television was shut down in December 2019; the Adventure into Fear franchise produced the series Helstrom (2020), which ultimately was disconnected from the MCU upon its release.
Despite featuring characters from and numerous references to the MCU films, the series were widely seen as being ignored by Marvel Studios and the films. This is in contrast to later series developed by Marvel Studios. The latter studio began integrating the Marvel Television series more into the MCU in early 2024 starting with the Netflix shows.

Title: Marvel Zombies (TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marvel_Zombies_(TV_series)
Excerpt: Marvel Zombies is an American adult animated television series created by Bryan Andrews and Zeb Wells for the streaming service Disney+, based on the Marvel Comics series of the same name. It is the 16th television series in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) from Marvel Studios and is produced by Marvel Studios Animation. The series is a spin-off of the animated series What If...? (2021–2024), set in the alternate timeline introduced in the first season episode "What If... Zombies?!" (2021). Continuing from that episode, Marvel Zombies follows a group of survivors as they risk their lives fighting superpowered zombies to save the world. Andrews served as showrunner and director, with Wells as head writer.
The series features an ensemble cast including Iman Vellani, Dominique Thorne, Hailee Steinfeld, Kerry Condon, Kenna Ramsey, Todd Williams, Kari Wahlgren, Florence Pugh, David Harbour, Simu Liu, Awkwafina, Randall Park, Feodor Chin, Wyatt Russell, Rama Vallury, Elizabeth Olsen, Hudson Thames, Paul Rudd, Greg Furman, Adam Hugill, Daniel Swain, Sheila Atim, Tessa Thompson, F. Murray Abraham, and Zenobia Shroff. Marvel Studios was developing several animated series in addition to What If...? by June 2021, including a spin-off based on "What If... Zombies?!" which was announced in November. Wells and Andrews were both involved by then. The series features the same animation style as What If...?, with Stellar Creative Lab returning from that series to provide the animation. It is Marvel Studios Animation's first series to be rated TV-MA.
Marvel Zombies was released on Disney+ on September 24, 2025, and consists of four episodes. It is a part of Phase Six of the MCU. It received generally positive reviews from critics. A second season is in production.