Title: National Council of Negro Women
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Council_of_Negro_Women
Excerpt: The National Council of Negro Women, Inc. (NCNW) is an American nonprofit organization founded in 1935 with the mission to advance the opportunities and the quality of life for African-American women, their families, and communities. Mary McLeod Bethune, the founder of NCNW, wanted to encourage the participation of Negro women in civic, political, economic and educational activities and institutions. The organization was considered as a clearing house for the dissemination of activities concerning women but wanted to work alongside a group that supported civil rights rather than go to actual protests. Women on the council fought more towards political and economic successes of black women to uplift them in society. NCNW fulfills this mission through research, advocacy, national and community-based services, and programs in the United States and Africa.
NCNW serves as a super organization that acts as a cohesive umbrella for the other African-American groups that already existed. With its 38 national affiliate organizations and about 200-500 community-based sections, NCNW has an outreach to nearly four million women, all contributing to the peaceful solutions of the problems of human welfare and rights. The national headquarters, which acts as a central source for program planning, is based in Washington, D.C., on Pennsylvania Avenue, located between the White House and the U.S. Capitol. NCNW also has two field offices.

Title: Eleanor Josaitis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eleanor_Josaitis
Excerpt: Eleanor Mary Josaitis (née Reed; December 17, 1931 – August 9, 2011) was an American civil rights activist and the co-founder of Focus: HOPE, an organization fighting racism and poverty. Michigan governor Rick Snyder referred to her as a "tireless and devoted leader".

Title: Southern Regional Council
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southern_Regional_Council
Excerpt: The Southern Regional Council (SRC) is a reform-oriented organization created in 1944 to avoid racial violence and promote racial equality in the Southern United States. Voter registration and political-awareness campaigns are used toward this end.  The SRC evolved in 1944 from the Commission on Interracial Cooperation.  It is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.

Title: Chi Eta Phi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chi_Eta_Phi
Excerpt: Chi Eta Phi Sorority, Inc. (ΧΗΦ) is an American professional service organization for registered professional nurses and student nurses, representing many cultures and diverse ethnic backgrounds. Sarah Killian, DNP, RN is the current national president.

Title: George Edwin Taylor
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Edwin_Taylor
Excerpt: George Edwin Taylor (August 4, 1857 – December 23, 1925) was an American journalist, editor, political activist, and politician. In 1904, he was the candidate of the National Negro Liberty Party for President of the United States. He was the first African American to run for president.
Taylor was born free in Little Rock, Arkansas, because his mother was free. His father was enslaved. His mother took him to Alton, Illinois, where she died. He reached La Crosse, Wisconsin, in 1865, where he lived with the family of a ship cook. After they left the city, he was placed in a foster home at age 10, and lived with that family until he was 20. He attended public school. He had early work experience in La Crosse as a journalist and labor/political activist. In 1891 Taylor left Wisconsin and moved to Oskaloosa, Iowa. He published a weekly newspaper, the Negro Solicitor. In the 1890s, Taylor shifted from being an Independent Republican to the Democratic Party.
In 1892, he was founder and president of the National Colored Men's Protection League. In 1900 he was president of the National Negro Democratic League, the Negro bureau within the national Democratic Party. In 1904, Taylor joined the National Negro Liberty Party, a third party, and ran as its candidate for president of the United States. After the failure of his 1904 campaign, he returned to the Democratic Party.