Title: Ant-Man (Scott Lang)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ant-Man_(Scott_Lang)
Excerpt: Ant-Man (Scott Edward Harris Lang) is a  fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by David Michelinie, Bob Layton and John Byrne, Scott Lang first appeared in The Avengers #181 (March 1979) and in Marvel Premiere #47 (April 1979) as the second superhero character to use the Ant-Man name in the Marvel Universe. He is a reformed thief and an electronics expert. He was a member of the Avengers, the Fantastic Four and the Guardians of the Galaxy, the main character in the comic-book series FF and, in 2015, he became the title character in the series Ant-Man.
Scott Lang is an ex-convict and electronics expert hired by Stark International, which enables him to steal the Ant-Man suit from Hank Pym, who had long since given up the name, to help his sick daughter. When Pym finds out, he gives the suit to Lang, allowing him to become the second Ant-Man. As Ant-Man, he serves as an Avenger for years, until he is killed during the Avengers Disassembled storyline. Years later, he is resurrected in the Avengers: The Children's Crusade mini-series. Following his resurrection, Lang heads the Future Foundation and founds his own company, the Ant-Man Security Solutions.
Paul Rudd plays Scott Lang in the Marvel Cinematic Universe films Ant-Man (2015), Captain America: Civil War (2016), Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018), Avengers: Endgame (2019), Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023), and the upcoming Avengers: Doomsday (2026), the web series WHIH Newsfront (2015), and the animated series What If...? (2021) and Marvel Zombies (2025). Additionally, Crispin Freeman, Josh Keaton, and Grant George have voiced Lang in animation.

Title: Ant-Man (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ant-Man_(film)
Excerpt: Ant-Man is a 2015 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics Ant-Man characters Scott Lang and Hank Pym. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the 12th film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). The film was directed by Peyton Reed from a screenplay by the writing teams of Edgar Wright & Joe Cornish and Adam McKay & Paul Rudd. It stars Rudd as Scott Lang / Ant-Man alongside Evangeline Lilly, Corey Stoll, Bobby Cannavale, Michael Peña, Tip "T.I." Harris, Anthony Mackie, Wood Harris, Judy Greer, Abby Ryder Fortson, David Dastmalchian, and Michael Douglas as Hank Pym. In the film, Lang must help defend Pym's Ant-Man shrinking technology and plot a heist with worldwide ramifications.
Development of Ant-Man began in April 2006 with the hiring of Wright to direct and co-write with Cornish. By April 2011, Wright and Cornish had completed three drafts of the script and Wright shot test footage for the film in July 2012. Pre-production began in October 2013 after being put on hold so that Wright could complete The World's End. Casting began in December 2013, with the hiring of Rudd to play Lang. In May 2014, Wright left the project citing creative differences, though he still received screenplay and story credits with Cornish. The following month, Reed was brought in to replace Wright, while McKay was hired to contribute to the script with Rudd. Filming took place between August and December 2014 in San Francisco and Metro Atlanta.
Ant-Man held its world premiere at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, Los Angeles, on June 29, 2015, and was released in the United States on July 17, as the final film in Phase Two of the MCU. It grossed more than $519 million worldwide and received positive reviews from critics, who generally welcomed the film's smaller stakes than other MCU films, as well as its cast (particularly Rudd, Peña, Lilly, and Douglas), humor, and visual effects. Two sequels have been released: Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018) and Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023).

Title: Ant-Man and the Wasp
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ant-Man_and_the_Wasp
Excerpt: Ant-Man and the Wasp is a 2018 American superhero film based on Marvel Comics featuring the characters Scott Lang / Ant-Man and Hope Pym / Wasp. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the sequel to Ant-Man (2015) and the 20th film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). The film was directed by Peyton Reed and written by the writing teams of Chris McKenna and Erik Sommers, and Paul Rudd, Andrew Barrer and Gabriel Ferrari. It stars Rudd as Lang and Evangeline Lilly as Hope van Dyne, alongside Michael Peña, Walton Goggins, Hannah John-Kamen, David Dastmalchian, Tip "T.I." Harris, Judy Greer, Bobby Cannavale, Randall Park, Abby Ryder Fortson, Michelle Pfeiffer, Laurence Fishburne, and Michael Douglas. In the film, the titular pair work with Hank Pym (Douglas) to retrieve Janet van Dyne (Pfeiffer) from the Quantum Realm.
Talks for a sequel to Ant-Man began shortly after that film was released. Ant-Man and the Wasp was officially announced in October 2015, with Rudd and Lilly returning to reprise their roles. A month later, Ant-Man director Reed was officially set to return. He had joined the first film later in its production and was excited to develop this one from the beginning. He also looked forward to introducing Hope van Dyne as the Wasp in this film, and insisted on treating Lang and her as equals. Filming took place from August to November 2017, at Pinewood Atlanta Studios in Fayette County, Georgia, as well as Metro Atlanta; San Francisco; Savannah, Georgia; and Hawaii.
Ant-Man and the Wasp had its world premiere in Hollywood, Los Angeles, on June 25, 2018, and was released in the United States on July 6, 2018, as part of Phase Three of the MCU. The film was a critical and commercial success, receiving praise for its performances (particularly those of Rudd and Lilly), humor, and levity, and grossing over $622 million worldwide. A sequel, Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania, was released in February 2023.

Title: Scott Lang (Marvel Cinematic Universe)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scott_Lang_(Marvel_Cinematic_Universe)
Excerpt: Scott Edward Harris Lang is a fictional character portrayed by Paul Rudd in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) media franchise, based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name. Depicted as a thief-turned-superhero, Scott is recruited by Hank Pym to use an advanced suit that allows him to change sizes and communicate with ants, inheriting the superhero identity Ant-Man.
Scott is recruited by Sam Wilson to join the Avengers; works alongside Pym's daughter, Hope van Dyne; and rekindles his relationship with his daughter, Cassie Lang. After the Blip, Scott is trapped inside the Quantum Realm before being accidentally saved, then helps the Avengers to stop an alternate version of Thanos. Afterwards, Scott writes a memoir. He is later trapped in the Quantum Realm once again, where he encounters Kang the Conqueror and prevents him from escaping.
Scott first appeared in the film Ant-Man (2015), then in Captain America: Civil War (2016), Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018), Avengers: Endgame (2019) and Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023). Alternate versions of the character appeared in the Disney+ animated series What If...? (2021–2023) and Marvel Zombies (2025), with Rudd reprising his role.

Title: Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ant-Man_and_the_Wasp:_Quantumania
Excerpt: Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania is a 2023 American superhero film based on Marvel Comics featuring the characters Scott Lang / Ant-Man and Hope Pym / Wasp. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the sequel to Ant-Man (2015) and Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018), and the 31st film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). It was directed by Peyton Reed, written by Jeff Loveness, and stars Paul Rudd as Scott Lang and Evangeline Lilly as Hope van Dyne, alongside Jonathan Majors, Kathryn Newton, David Dastmalchian, Katy O'Brian, William Jackson Harper, Bill Murray, Michelle Pfeiffer, Corey Stoll, and Michael Douglas. In the film, Scott, Hope, and their family are accidentally transported to the Quantum Realm and face off against Kang the Conqueror (Majors).
Plans for a third Ant-Man film were confirmed in November 2019, with Reed and Rudd returning. Loveness was hired by April 2020, with development beginning during the COVID-19 pandemic. The title and new cast members, including the additions of Majors and Newton, were announced in December 2020. Filming in Turkey began in early February 2021, and additional filming occurred in San Francisco in mid-June. Principal photography began at the end of July at Pinewood Studios in Buckinghamshire and ended in November. With a net production budget of $330.1 million, it is one of the most expensive films ever made.
Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania premiered in Westwood, Los Angeles, on February 6, 2023, and was released in the United States on February 17. It is the first film, and beginning, of Phase Five of the MCU. The film received mixed reviews from critics and was a box-office disappointment, grossing $476.1 million worldwide and becoming one of the few MCU films to not break-even in its theatrical run.