Title: Sports governing body
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_governing_body
Excerpt: A sports governing body is a sports organization that has a regulatory or sanctioning function.
Sports governing bodies come in various forms and have a variety of regulatory functions, including disciplinary procedure for rule infractions and deciding on rule
changes in the sport that they govern. Governing bodies have different scopes. They may cover a range of sport at an internationally acceptable level, such as the International Olympic Committee and the International Paralympic Committee, or only a single sport at a national level, such as the Rugby Football League. National bodies will largely have to be affiliated with international bodies for the same sport. The first international federations were formed at the end of the 19th century.

Title: Avery Brundage
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avery_Brundage
Excerpt: Avery Brundage (; September 28, 1887 – May 8, 1975) was the fifth president of the International Olympic Committee, serving from 1952 to 1972, the only American and first non-European to attain that position. Brundage is remembered as a zealous advocate of amateurism and for his involvement with the 1936 and 1972 Summer Olympics, both held in Germany.
Brundage was born in Detroit in 1887 to a working-class family. When he was five years old, his father moved his family to Chicago and subsequently abandoned his wife and children. Raised mostly by relatives, Brundage attended the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign to study engineering and became a track star. He competed in the 1912 Summer Olympics, where he participated in the pentathlon and decathlon, but did not win any medals; both events were won by teammate Jim Thorpe. He won national championships in track three times between 1914 and 1918 and founded his own construction business. He earned his wealth from this company and from investments, and never accepted pay for his involvement in sports.
Following his retirement from athletics, Brundage became a sports administrator and rose rapidly through the ranks in United States sports groups. As leader of America's Olympic organizations, he fought zealously against a boycott of the 1936 Summer Olympics, which had been awarded to Germany before the rise of the Nazi regime and its escalating persecution of Jews. Brundage successfully prevented a US boycott of the Games, and he was elected to the IOC that year. He quickly became a major figure in the Olympic movement and was elected IOC president in 1952.
As president of the American Olympic Committee, Brundage fought strongly for amateurism and against the commercialization of the Olympic Games, even as these stands increasingly came to be seen as incongruous with the realities of modern sports. The advent of the state-sponsored athlete of the Eastern Bloc countries further eroded the ideology of the pure amateur, as it put the self-financed amateurs of the Western countries at a disadvantage. The 1972 Summer Olympics at Munich, West Germany, were his final Games as president of the IOC. The event was marred by tragedy and controversy when eleven Israeli team members were murdered by Palestinian terrorists. At the memorial service, Brundage decried the politicization of sports and refused to cancel the remainder of the Olympics, declaring "the Games must go on." Although those in attendance applauded Brundage's statement, his decision to continue the Games has since been harshly criticized, and his actions in 1936 and 1972 seen as evidence of antisemitism. In retirement, Brundage married his second wife, a German princess. He died in Garmisch-Partenkirchen in 1975 at age 87.

Title: International Practical Shooting Confederation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Practical_Shooting_Confederation
Excerpt: The International Practical Shooting Confederation (IPSC) is the world's largest shooting sport association, and the largest and oldest within practical shooting. Founded in 1976, the IPSC nowadays affiliates over 100 regions from Africa, Americas, Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and Oceania. Competitions are held with pistols, revolvers, rifles, and shotguns, and the competitors are divided into different divisions based on firearm and equipment features. While everyone in a division competes in the Overall category, there are also separate awards for the categories Lady (female competitors), Super Junior (under 14 years), Junior (under 18 years), Senior (over 50 years), and Super Senior (over 60 years).
IPSC's activities include international regulation of the sport by approving firearms and equipment for various divisions, administering competition rules, and educating range officials (referees) through the International Range Officers Association who are responsible for conducting matches safely, fairly, and according to the rules. IPSC organizes the World Championships called the Handgun World Shoot, Rifle World Shoot, and Shotgun World Shoot with three-year intervals for each discipline.
In reaction to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, the IPSC cancelled all scheduled and future level 3 and above international competitions in Russia.

Title: World Bridge Federation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Bridge_Federation
Excerpt: The World Bridge Federation (WBF) is the international governing body of contract bridge. The WBF is responsible for world championship competitions, most of which are conducted at a few multi-event meets on a four-year cycle. The most prestigious championships are those for national teams in Open, Women, and Seniors categories: the Bermuda Bowl, Venice Cup, and Senior Bowl (jointly the biennial "World Teams Championships"), and the quadrennial World Team Olympiads, incorporated in the World Mind Sports Games beginning 2008.
The World Bridge Federation was founded August 1958 by delegates from Europe, North America, and South America (now Zones 1 to 3). It is incorporated under the laws of Switzerland as a 'non-profit' organization. Harold Stirling Vanderbilt was made the first honorary member of the WBF for his work developing the game. The current president is Jan Kamras of Sweden.
WBF membership now comprises 123 National Contract Bridge Organizations (NBOs) with about 700,000 affiliated members, most of whom participate in bridge competitions locally and many of whom compete nationally and internationally. The NBOs belong to the "zonal organization" in one of eight geographic zones. Each National Contract Bridge Organization agrees to fulfill certain requirements, such as opening its ranks to all its citizens and residents and upholding a standard of ethics acceptable to the WBF.
The World Bridge Federation has a Congress to which each NBO is entitled to send one delegate. The Congress meets every second year, at Team Olympiads and at World Championships. The WBF is administered by an Executive Council which is assisted by the various Committees and Consultants it appoints.

Title: United States bids for the Olympic Games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_bids_for_the_Olympic_Games
Excerpt: Cities in the United States have participated in the bidding to host 22 Summer Olympics and 14 Winter Olympics, more than any other country. Before 1955, multiple cities from a country could bid for the same Olympic Games. Since 1955, the United States Olympic & Paralympic Committee (USOPC, formerly USOC) has been responsible for choosing one candidate city that may bid for each edition of the Olympic Games, often requiring U.S. cities to bid against each other for the opportunity to submit a bid to the International Olympic Committee (IOC).
Before the USOC took responsibility for nominating cities, the United States was awarded hosting duties for the Summer Olympics twice, in Chicago (later moved to St. Louis) in 1904 and Los Angeles in 1932, and for the 1932 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid, New York. In some years, several American cities competed against one another for the IOC's approval and none of them received it, provoking the USOC to intervene.
For the Summer Olympics, the USOC nominated Detroit's bids four times in a row for the Games from 1960 through 1972. It then supported Los Angeles' bids for 1976 and 1980, before the city was successfully awarded the 1984 Summer Olympics. The USOC's next nominee, the Atlanta bid for the 1996 Summer Olympics, succeeded on the first try. The NYC 2012 and Chicago 2016 bids failed, while the Los Angeles bid for 2024 led to the city being awarded the 2028 Summer Olympics without competition.
For the Winter Olympics, the USOC's first nominee was successful, the candidacy of Olympic Valley, California, for 1960. The committee later unsuccessfully nominated Lake Placid's bid for 1968 and Salt Lake City's bid for 1972 before Denver, Colorado, was awarded the 1976 Winter Olympics (and later withdrew from its hosting duties). Lake Placid was subsequently awarded the 1980 Winter Olympics by default. Anchorage, Alaska, was the nominee for 1992 and 1994. The USOC returned its endorsement to Salt Lake City for 1998, and it was awarded the 2002 Winter Olympics. The next American nominee for the Winter Olympics was Salt Lake City again, and it was awarded the 2034 Winter Olympics.