Title: The Tonight Show
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Tonight_Show
Excerpt: The Tonight Show is an American late-night talk show that has been broadcast on NBC since 1954. The program has been hosted by seven comedians: Steve Allen (1954–1957), Ernie Kovacs (1956–1957), Jack Paar (1957–1962), Johnny Carson (1962–1992), Jay Leno (1992–2009 and 2010–2014), Conan O'Brien (2009–2010) and Jimmy Fallon (since 2014).
Besides the main hosts, a number of regular "guest hosts" have been used, notably Ernie Kovacs, who hosted his own version of Tonight two nights per week during 1956–1957, and a number of guest hosts used by Carson, who curtailed his own hosting duties back to three nights per week by the 1980s. Among Carson's regular guest hosts were Joey Bishop,  McLean Stevenson, David Letterman, David Brenner, Garry Shandling and Joan Rivers, with his final regular guest host being his eventual successor Jay Leno. The practice of hiring guest hosts has been mostly discontinued by Leno and his successors, who prefer airing reruns to showcasing potential rivals.
The Tonight Show is the world's longest-running talk show and the longest-running regularly scheduled entertainment program in the United States. It is the third-longest-running show on NBC, after the news-and-talk shows Today and Meet the Press. The current incarnation is taped from Studio 6B at NBC Studios in Rockefeller Center in New York, the same studio used during the later Jack Paar era and the first 10 years of Carson. During its initial run under Steve Allen, it originated from the Hudson Theatre on Broadway. From 1973 to 2009, and from 2010 to 2014 the show was taped at one of three different studios at NBC's Burbank, California Studios. During Conan O'Brien's brief tenure, the show was taped at an opulently reworked studio on Stage 1 of Universal Studios Hollywood. 
Over the course of almost 70 years, The Tonight Show has undergone only minor title changes. It aired under the name Tonight for several of its early years, as well as Tonight Starring Jack Paar and The Jack Paar Show due to the runaway popularity of its host, eventually settling permanently on The Tonight Show after Carson began his tenure in 1962, albeit with the host's name always included in the title. Beginning with Carson's debut episode, network programmers, advertisers, and the show's announcers would refer to the show by including the name of the host: The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien and currently, The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon. In the 1950s and 1960s, TV listings publications such as TV Guide often listed the show as simply Jack Parr or Johnny Carson.  
In 1957, the show briefly tried a more news-style format (during which time its title was adjusted to Tonight! America After Dark). It has otherwise adhered to the talk show format introduced by Allen and honed further by Paar.
Carson is the longest-serving host to date, although he is not the host with the most episodes. The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson aired for 30 seasons between October 1962 and May 1992. Leno has the record of having hosted the greatest number of total televised episodes. Leno's record is due to the fact that, unlike Carson (who only produced new shows three days a week, these being typically Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, starting in the 1980s), Leno also never used guest hosts on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno (except Katie Couric once) and produced new shows five days a week; Leno himself was also Carson's primary guest host for the last five years of Carson's tenure, adding even more episodes to his credit. Leaving out Leno's five years as permanent guest host, Leno hosted 119 more episodes as full-time host than Carson.
During Carson's first four years, the show ran for 105 minutes and then was reduced to ninety minutes in early 1967 when Carson stopped appearing for the first 15 minutes because most affiliates were carrying their local news during that time slot as they expanded to half an hour. During Carson's 1980 contract negotiations, the show was shortened to sixty minutes beginning that September, where it has remained since. NBC also broadcast The Best of Carson which were repeats of some of Carson's popular older albeit usually recent shows. Prior to the debut of Saturday Night Live in October 1975, NBC aired The Best of Carson on Saturday nights at 11:30 pm. During Leno's tenure as permanent guest host, The Best of Carson usually aired on Mondays with Leno hosting on Tuesdays.
Also featuring prominently on Carson's show was his sidekick Ed McMahon, who introduced Carson and typically appeared alongside him for the entire episode. By the end of Carson's tenure, McMahon usually only appeared in episodes hosted by Carson, and the use of a sidekick in such a manner has not been continued under Leno and his successors. 
Apart from the show's brief run as a news show in 1957, its shortest-serving host was Conan O'Brien, who went on to continue hosting a late-night program following his controversial departure. O'Brien hosted 146 episodes over the course of fewer than eight months before Leno was brought back as host, where he served for almost four additional years. Host Fallon debuted on February 17, 2014. Fallon had previously hosted Late Night with Jimmy Fallon, and before Late Night he was a popular member of the cast of Saturday Night Live, co-hosting the "Weekend Update" segment with Tina Fey as well as performing sketches.

Title: Danny Masterson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Danny_Masterson
Excerpt: Daniel Peter Masterson (born March 13, 1976)  is an American actor. He portrayed Steven Hyde in That '70s Show (1998–2006), Milo Foster in Men at Work (2012–2014), and Jameson "Rooster" Bennett in The Ranch (2016–2018).   
In 2023, Masterson was convicted of raping two women in 2003, and is currently serving a 30 years to life prison sentence. A third count of rape resulted in a hung jury. Masterson is a Scientologist, as were his victims at the time of the assaults. The Church of Scientology's attempts to silence the victims, and other interference, delayed for 20 years the bringing of the crimes to justice.

Title: The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Tonight_Show_Starring_Johnny_Carson
Excerpt: The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson is an American television talk show broadcast by NBC. The show was the third installment of The Tonight Show. Hosted by Johnny Carson, it aired from October 1, 1962, to May 22, 1992, replacing Tonight Starring Jack Paar and was replaced by The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. Ed McMahon served as Carson's sidekick and the show's announcer.
For its first decade, Johnny Carson's The Tonight Show was based at the RCA Building at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City, with some episodes recorded at NBC Studios in Burbank, California; on May 1, 1972, the show moved to Burbank as its main venue with extended returns to New York for several weeks over the 
next 12 months. After May 1973, however, the show remained in Burbank exclusively  until Carson's retirement. The show's house band, the NBC Orchestra, was led by Skitch Henderson, until 1966 when Milton Delugg took over, who was succeeded by Doc Severinsen less than a year later.
Carson's Tonight Show was the longest-running late-night show of all time. The show played a significant role in launching the careers of numerous comedians by introducing them to a national audience. The series was ranked as one of the greatest TV shows of all time in polls from 2002 and 2013.

Title: Liz Sagal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liz_Sagal
Excerpt: Liz Sagal is an American actress and screenwriter. She is part of a family of entertainment industry professionals. She is the daughter of director Boris Sagal and the stepdaughter of Marge Champion. In addition to her twin sister Jean Sagal, two of her other siblings, older sister Katey Sagal and brother Joey Sagal, are notable in the industry and her other brother, David Sagal, is an attorney married to actress McNally Sagal.

Title: Die Oliver Pocher Show
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Die_Oliver_Pocher_Show
Excerpt: Die Oliver Pocher Show was a late-night show with Oliver Pocher shown by Sat.1 in Germany on Fridays. The show is a mix of late-night comedy and personality. Each broadcast begins with stand-up comedy. There are generally two celebrity guests. During the first season, Pocher's father Gerard frequently appeared on the show as a sidekick.
It is recorded early on Friday evenings in the old Residenz Theater in Köln. For special occasions there are also live shows.
The first season began in October 2009 and ended in April 2010. The second season will begin on 27 August 2010.
Pocher and Johannes B. Kerner where both contracted by SAT.1 as white hopes to put an end to severe losses of quotas after several years. Instead both of them attract disappointingly few viewers - long contract periods protect them from cancellations. However, there have been significant changes on the concept of the show: the typical late night desk was replaced by a couch, the band by a female DJ, Pocher's father by two nasty baby puppets who acted as sidekicks for several months. The show is still undercutting the low quotas and shares of cheap comedy reruns which currently fill most earlier time slots on SAT.1's Friday evening. The so-called Fun Freitag is famous for his series of spectacular failures - Pocher's former show partner and German late night legend Harald Schmidt warned him about that in several interviews. Schmidt himself continued his show, the Harald Schmidt Show in autumn 2011. The last episode of Oliver Pocher Show aired in March 2011.