Title: Kroger
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kroger
Excerpt: The Kroger Co. is an American retail corporation headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. It operates (either directly or through its subsidiaries) supermarkets and multi-department stores throughout the United States.
The company was founded by Bernard Kroger in 1883 in Cincinnati. Kroger stores operate under multiple formats, including multi-department stores, supermarket “combo” stores, marketplace stores, and warehouse-style locations. In addition to its retail stores, Kroger operates manufacturing facilities, supermarket fuel centers, pharmacies, and in-store medical clinics. About two-thirds of Kroger's employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements, with most being represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW).
Industry publications have ranked Kroger among the largest supermarket operators in the United States by revenue, and research firms have listed it among the nation’s largest general retailers. Kroger also appears on rankings of major U.S. private-sector employers. The company is included on the annual Fortune 500 list of U.S. corporations ranked by total revenue.

Title: List of Monk characters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Monk_characters
Excerpt: The following is a list of characters from Monk, an American comedy-drama detective television series created by Andy Breckman and starring Tony Shalhoub as Adrian Monk. Monk's assistant Sharona Fleming, portrayed by Bitty Schram, was replaced by Natalie Teeger, portrayed by Traylor Howard, halfway through the third season. The rest of the principal cast remained consistent throughout the series.
Adrian Monk is the only character to appear in all 125 episodes.

Title: Palantir
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palantir
Excerpt: Palantir Technologies Inc. () is an American publicly traded company that develops data integration and analytics software. Palantir is headquartered in Miami, Florida, and was founded in 2003 by Peter Thiel, Stephen Cohen, Joe Lonsdale, Alex Karp, and Nathan Gettings.
Palantir's customer base includes federal agencies, state and local governments, international organizations, and also private companies. The company has four main operating systems: Gotham, Foundry, Apollo, and AIP. Gotham is an intelligence tool used by militaries and counter-terrorism analysts, including the United States Intelligence Community and United States Department of Defense. Multiple police departments have used Gotham for crime analysis. Apollo is a platform to facilitate continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) across all environments. 
Its software as a service (SaaS) is one of five offerings the U.S. Department of Defense authorized for Mission Critical National Security Systems (IL5). Palantir has been used for data integration and analysis by corporate clients such as Morgan Stanley, Merck KGaA, Airbus, Wejo, Lilium, PG&E and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles.
Palantir has been criticized for its involvement in expanding government surveillance through artificial intelligence and facial recognition systems. Critics have raised concerns about its contracts with the Trump administration and the aggregation of sensitive data on Americans. Civil liberties organizations have criticized Palantir's police technology as predictive policing. CEO Alex Karp disputes this characterization. Others observe that Palantir does not collect or store data, but only helps analyze data that customers have already collected and provides services and platforms where customers retain the rights, although examples of data management failures have been noted. Some note the active or passive responsibility of Thiel and Karp in allowing conspiracy theories about Palantir to spread.

Title: Ralph Breaks the Internet
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ralph_Breaks_the_Internet
Excerpt: Ralph Breaks the Internet is a 2018 American animated comedy film produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios. The film was directed by Rich Moore and Phil Johnston and written by Johnston and Pamela Ribon. John C. Reilly, Sarah Silverman, Jack McBrayer, Jane Lynch, and Ed O'Neill reprise their character roles from the first film, with Gal Gadot, Taraji P. Henson, and Alfred Molina joining the cast. Alan Tudyk also returns, voicing a different character. The sequel to Wreck-It Ralph (2012), the film follows Ralph and Vanellope von Schweetz as they travel to the internet to get a replacement for the Sugar Rush cabinet's broken steering wheel and prevent Mr. Litwak from disposing of the game.
Discussions about a sequel to Wreck-It Ralph began in September 2012, and the new installment went through three different scripts before the filmmakers settled on the final plot. When it was officially announced in June 2016, most of the original cast confirmed they had signed on, with new cast members added in 2018. The film's title of Ralph Breaks the Internet was announced in March 2017.
Ralph Breaks the Internet premiered in Hollywood, Los Angeles, on November 5, 2018, and was released in the United States on November 21. It was a critical and commercial success, grossing $529 million worldwide against a $175 million budget. It was nominated for Best Animated Feature at the 91st Academy Awards, 76th Golden Globe Awards, 46th Annie Awards, and 24th Critics' Choice Awards.

Title: Lucky's Market
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucky%27s_Market
Excerpt: Lucky's Market is a brand of supermarkets that is being used by two independent and unrelated regional supermarket chains, LM Acquisition Co. LLC  in Colorado and Lucky's Market Ohio in Ohio.
LM Acquisition Co. LLC , doing business as Lucky's Market, started in Boulder and briefly became a national chain before it shrank back to its home state. Founded in 2003 by Bo and Trish Sharon, the chain focuses primarily on organic food. From 2016 to 2019, the company was partially owned by the Kroger supermarket chain. At its peak in 2019, the company had 39 stores in ten states. The withdrawal of financial support from Kroger at the end of 2019 led to a massive company downsizing to just six surviving stores in four states and a Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection filing in January 2020. After the Sharons obtained the surviving six stores, they quickly sold off the four stores outside of Colorado to retain only two stores, one in Boulder and the other in Fort Collins, by April 2020.
Lucky's Market Ohio, doing business as Lucky's Market in the state of Ohio, began in 2020 through the purchase of both Ohio stores from LM Acquisition by the owners of Dave's Market.