Title: Diana (mythology)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diana_(mythology)
Excerpt: Diana is a goddess in Roman religion, primarily considered a patroness of the countryside and nature, hunters, wildlife, childbirth, crossroads, the night, and the Moon. She is equated with the Greek goddess Artemis, and absorbed much of Artemis' mythology early in Roman history, including a birth on the island of Delos to parents Jupiter and Latona, and a twin brother, Apollo, though she had an independent origin in Italy.
Diana is revered in modern neopagan religions including Roman neopaganism, Stregheria, and Wicca. In the ancient, medieval, and modern periods, Diana has been considered a triple deity, merged with a goddess of the moon (Luna/Selene) and the underworld (usually Hecate).

Title: Eos
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eos
Excerpt: In ancient Greek mythology and religion, Eos (; Ionic and Homeric Greek Ἠώς Ēṓs, Attic Ἕως Héōs, "dawn"; Aeolic Αὔως Aúōs, Doric Ἀώς Āṓs) is the goddess and personification of the dawn, who rose each morning from her home at the edge of the river Oceanus to deliver light and disperse the night. She opened the gates of heaven for her brother Helios, the sun, to pass through, and was imagined in poetry and art as a radiant, often winged goddess driving her horse-drawn chariot across the sky, bringing with her the colours and dew of morning.
In Greek literature, Eos is presented as a daughter of the Titans Hyperion and Theia, the sister of Helios and the moon goddess Selene. In rarer traditions, she is the daughter of the Titan Pallas. Each day she heralds the breaking of the new day and the arrival of Helios; although primarily associated with dawn and early morning, she is sometimes said to accompany him for the whole duration of his journey, and thus can also be seen near dusk. Her most common epithets in the Homeric epics are Rhododactylos, or "rosy-fingered", a reference to the sky's colours at daybreak, and Erigeneia, "early-born".
Eos also appears in Greek tradition as the mother, by Astraeus, of the Anemoi, the winds, as well as of several astral figures connected with the morning and evening sky. Like her Roman counterpart Aurora and the Rigvedic Ushas, she continues the name and character of an earlier Indo-European dawn goddess, Hausos.
A major group of myths concerns Eos's love for mortal men, whom she pursued and sometimes carried away in a manner more often associated with male gods and mortal women. In surviving tradition, this desire is explained as the work of Aphrodite, who cursed the goddess with passion for mortal men after Eos slept with Ares. Her most notable mortal lover is the Trojan prince Tithonus, for whom she secured immortality but not eternal youth, leading him to age forever. In another story, she carried off the Athenian Cephalus against his will, though she eventually let him return to his wife Procris.
Eos figures in many works of ancient literature and poetry, but despite her antiquity and Proto-Indo-European origins, there is little evidence of her having received extensive independent cult or being the centre of worship during classical times.

Title: Hera
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hera
Excerpt: In ancient Greek religion, Hera (; Ancient Greek: Ἥρα, romanized: Hḗrā; Ἥρη, Hḗrē in Ionic and Homeric Greek) is the goddess of marriage, women, and family, and the protector of women during childbirth. In Greek mythology, she is queen among the twelve Olympians on Mount Olympus, sister and wife of Zeus, and daughter of the Titans Cronus and Rhea. One of her defining characteristics in myth is her jealous and vengeful nature in dealing with any who offended her, especially Zeus's numerous adulterous lovers and illegitimate offspring.
Her iconography usually presents her as a dignified, matronly figure, upright or enthroned, crowned with a polos or diadem, sometimes veiled as a married woman. She is the patron goddess of lawful marriage. She presides over weddings, blesses and legalises marital unions, and protects women from harm during childbirth. Her sacred animals include the cow, cuckoo, and peacock. She is sometimes shown holding a pomegranate as an emblem of immortality. Her Roman counterpart is Juno.

Title: Rhiannon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhiannon
Excerpt: Rhiannon (Welsh pronunciation: [r̥iˈan.ɔn]) is a female figure in Welsh mythology and a protagonist of the Mabinogi, in its First and Third Branches. She has been described by Ronald Hutton as "one of the great female personalities in World literature", adding that "there is in fact, nobody quite like her in previous human literature". Rhiannon also appears as a character in 14th century Medieval Welsh poetry.
In the Mabinogi, Rhiannon is a strong-minded ruler, a lady of the courts, and a devoted mother. She is intelligent, politically strategic, famed for her sophisticated conversation and striking looks, as well as her wealth and the generosity of her gifts especially to minstrels.
In the First Branch Rhiannon chooses Pwyll, prince of Dyfed (south-west Wales), as her consort, breaking her contract with Gwawl, another prince. Her fateful choice employs two hudiau (enchantments): an uncatchable horse, and an almost unfillable bag. With Pwyll she has a son, Pryderi. She endures tragedy when her newborn child is abducted, and she is accused of infanticide. She is later cleared of this calumny when the child is restored, and her son Pryderi duly inherits the lordship of Dyfed. In the Third Branch Rhiannon as a widow marries Manawydan, the usurped heir of the British royal family. She has further trials and adventures with him, her son and his wife, involving various enchantments: chiefly the Desolation of all Dyfed, seven years of vengeance by Gwawl's magician friend Llwyd.
Rhiannon may have originally derived from a goddess, first on record by William Owen Pughe (1803), strongly developed as Mother Goddess and Horse Goddess by Edward Anwyl (1906) whose work appears uncredited by W. J. Gruffydd (1953); the goddess theme is structurally analysed by Patrick K. Ford (1977), critiqued by Roberta Valente as obscuring Rhiannon the woman (1986). There may be an inheritance in the traditions of the Mari Llwyd whose wassailing customs centre a horse skull, and match Rhiannon's geographic distribution in Wales. The Adar Rhiannon (Birds of Rhiannon) also express her paradoxical enchantment power: far yet near, living and dead. They originally appear both in the Mabinogi and Culhwch ac Olwen.
Rhiannon seems to inherit the traditions of an earlier Celtic deity the Gaulish horse goddess Epona. Rhiannon is strongly associated with horses, and so is her son Pryderi. She and her son are often depicted as mare and foal. Like Epona, she sometimes sits on her horse in a calm, stoic way. This connection with Epona is generally accepted among scholars of the Mabinogi and Celtic studies, but Ronald Hutton, a historian of paganism, is sceptical.
Her name has been linked to a Brittonic form *Rīgantonā (a linguistic reconstruction), derived from *rīgan- "queen" (cf. Welsh rhiain 'maiden', Old Irish rígain 'queen').

Title: Triple Goddess (Neopaganism)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triple_Goddess_(Neopaganism)
Excerpt: The Triple Goddess is a deity or deity archetype revered in many Neopagan religious and spiritual traditions. In common Neopagan usage, the Triple Goddess is viewed as a triunity of three distinct aspects or figures united in one being. These three figures are often described as the Maiden, the Mother, and the Crone, each of which symbolizes both a separate stage in the female life cycle and a phase of the Moon, and often rules one of the realms of heavens, earth, and underworld. In various forms of Wicca, her masculine consort is the Horned God.
The Triple Goddess was the subject of much of the writing of early and middle 20th-century poet, novelist, and mythographer Robert Graves, in his books The White Goddess and The Greek Myths as well as in his poetry and novels. Modern neopagan conceptions of the Triple Goddess have been heavily influenced by Graves, who regarded her as the continuing muse of all true poetry, and who speculatively imagined her ancient worship, drawing on the scholarship, fiction and mythology of his time, in particular the work of Jane Ellen Harrison and other Cambridge Ritualists. Hungarian scholar of Greek mythology Karl Kerenyi likewise perceived an underlying triple moon goddess in Greek mythology. Archaeologist Marija Gimbutas also argued for the ancient worship of a universal Triple Goddess in European cultures but, as with Graves, her generalization of these theories to multiple unrelated cultures, and the unsourced homogenization of diverse cultures into one unified cultural and religious figure, has attracted much controversy. Many neopagan belief systems follow Graves' and Gimbutas' proposed figure of a universal, cross-cultural Triple Goddess, and these ideas continue to be an influence on feminism, literature, Jungian psychology and literary criticism.