Title: Adam West
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adam_West
Excerpt: William West Anderson (September 19, 1928 – June 9, 2017), known professionally as Adam West, was an American actor. He portrayed Batman in the 1960s ABC series of the same name and its 1966 theatrical feature film, reprising the role in various media until 2017. Having made his film debut in the 1950s, West starred opposite Chuck Connors in Geronimo (1962) and The Three Stooges in The Outlaws Is Coming (1965). He also appeared in the science fiction film Robinson Crusoe on Mars (1964).
He voiced parodied versions of himself in the animated television sitcoms Johnny Bravo (1997, 2004), The Fairly OddParents (2003–2008), The Simpsons (1992, 2002), and Family Guy (2000–2017). In the latter, he played Mayor Adam West between the second and seventeenth seasons. He received a television star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2012.

Title: East Is East (1999 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_Is_East_(1999_film)
Excerpt: East Is East is a 1999 English comedy-drama film written by Ayub Khan-Din and directed by Damien O'Donnell. It is set in Salford, Lancashire (now in Greater Manchester), in 1971, in a mixed-ethnicity British household headed by Pakistani father George (Om Puri) and an English mother, Ella (Linda Bassett).
East Is East is based on Khan-Din's 1996 play of the same name, which opened at the Birmingham Repertory Theatre in October 1996 and Royal Court Theatre in November 1996. The title derives from the 1889 Rudyard Kipling poem "The Ballad of East and West", of which the opening line reads: "Oh East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet".
The film was critically acclaimed, winning the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film at the BAFTA Awards. It was also a major box office success, grossing $30,438,635 (equivalent to $59,000,000 in 2025) worldwide and earning over ten times its £1.9 million ($3 million) budget.

Title: Wagons East
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wagons_East
Excerpt: Wagons East (sometimes styled as Wagons East!) is a 1994 American Western adventure comedy film directed by Peter Markle, written by Matthew Carlson, and starring John Candy, Richard Lewis, John C. McGinley, Ellen Greene, Robert Picardo, Rodney A. Grant, and Ed Lauter. It tells the story of an alcoholic wagon master who leads a group of misfit settlers in the Wild West back to the East. The film was released in the United States on August 26, 1994. Filming took place in Sierra de Órganos National Park in the town of Sombrerete, Mexico, and in Durango, Mexico.
During the final days of the film's production in Durango, Mexico, John Candy died of a heart attack at the age of 43. Script re-writes, a stand-in and special effects were used to complete his remaining scenes, and it was released five months after his death. The film marked Candy's penultimate performance, with the film being dedicated in memory of him as well as the film being the last Carolco Pictures production to be distributed by TriStar Pictures.
The film was panned by critics, with a rare 0% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The film was also a box office failure that grossed just $4.4 million against a $23 million budget.

Title: The Spy Who Came In from the Cold (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Spy_Who_Came_In_from_the_Cold_(film)
Excerpt: The Spy Who Came In from the Cold is a 1965 British spy film directed and produced by Martin Ritt, adapted by Paul Dehn and Guy Trosper from the 1963 novel by John le Carré. It stars Richard Burton, Claire Bloom, and Oskar Werner, and features Sam Wanamaker, Cyril Cusack, Rupert Davies, George Voskovec, and Peter van Eyck in supporting roles.
The film depicts British MI6 agent Alec Leamas' (Burton) mission as a faux defector who is given the task of sowing damaging disinformation about a powerful East German intelligence officer (Werner). As part of a charade, Leamas is apparently dismissed from the British secret intelligence service and becomes an embittered alcoholic. He also strikes up a relationship with Nan Perry (Bloom), a British communist. He is soon approached by East German agents in Britain, and he allows himself to be recruited and taken to continental Europe to sell his secrets for money. The plots of the rival spy agencies unfold, and prove more complicated than Leamas expected.
The Spy Who Came In from the Cold was a box-office success, receiving positive reviews and several awards, including four BAFTA Awards for Best British Film, Best Actor (for Burton), Best Cinematography, and Best Production Design. For their performances, Burton was also nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor while Werner won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor. The film was named one of the top ten films of 1965 by the National Board of Review in the United States.

Title: East Side, West Side (1949 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_Side,_West_Side_(1949_film)
Excerpt: East Side, West Side is a 1949 American film, starring Barbara Stanwyck, James Mason, Van Heflin, and Ava Gardner. While frequently termed a melodrama or women's film, it also has been described as a film noir and "urban noir."
The film is based on the 1947 novel of the same title by Marcia Davenport, and was directed by Mervyn LeRoy.