Title: Mako (actor)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mako_(actor)
Excerpt: Makoto Iwamatsu (岩松 信, Iwamatsu Makoto; December 10, 1933 – July 21, 2006) was a Japanese-American actor, credited mononymously in almost all of his acting roles as simply Mako (マコ;  MAH-koh). His career in film, on television, and on stage spanned five decades and 165 productions. He was nominated for an Academy Award, Golden Globe Award, and a Tony Award.
Born and raised in Kobe, Mako moved to the United States after the Second World War, where his dissident parents had moved to escape political persecution. After serving with the U.S. Army during the Korean War, he trained in acting at the Pasadena Playhouse and later co-founded the East West Players. His role as Po-Han (his second credited role on film) in the 1966 film The Sand Pebbles saw him nominated for the Academy Award and the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor.
His other various roles included Kichijiro in the 1971 film adaptation of Silence, Oomiak "The Fearless One" in The Island at the Top of the World (1974), Akiro the Wizard in Conan the Barbarian (1982) and Conan the Destroyer (1984), and Kungo Tsarong in Seven Years in Tibet (1997). He was part of the original cast of Stephen Sondheim's 1976 Broadway musical Pacific Overtures, which earned him a Tony Award nomination for Best Actor in a Musical. Later in his career, he became well known for his voice-acting roles, including Mr. Yamaguchi in Rugrats in Paris: The Movie, Aku in the first four seasons of Samurai Jack (2001–04), and Iroh in the first two seasons of Avatar: The Last Airbender (2005–06).
He died on July 21, 2006, at the age of 72 from esophageal cancer.

Title: Splinter (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Splinter_(Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles)
Excerpt: Splinter, often referred to as Master Splinter or Sensei by his students/sons, is a fictional character from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles comics and all related media. A mutant rat, he is the grave and stoic sage of the Turtles, their ninjutsu and martial arts instructor, and their adoptive father.
The character was originally a parody of the Marvel Comics character Stick.

Title: TMNT (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TMNT_(film)
Excerpt: TMNT (abbreviated from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles) is a 2007 animated superhero film written and directed by Kevin Munroe in his feature directorial debut and based on the characters created by Peter Laird and Kevin Eastman. The first animated film in the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film series, it features the voices of Chris Evans, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Mako, Kevin Smith, Patrick Stewart, and Ziyi Zhang with narration by Laurence Fishburne. In the film, after having grown apart following the final defeat of their arch-enemy, the Shredder, the four Turtles — Leonardo, Raphael, Donatello, and Michelangelo (voiced respectively by James Arnold Taylor, Nolan North, Mitchell Whitfield, and Mikey Kelley) — are set to reunite and overcome their faults to save the world from evil ancient creatures.
Development and pre-production for TMNT began in June 2005 at Imagi's Los Angeles facility and the animation was produced in Hong Kong, followed by post-production in Hollywood. Munroe chose to produce the film in CGI animation as opposed to live-action like the prior Turtles films, in an effort to make it easier for audiences to suspend their disbelief. When writing the film, Munroe wanted to divert away from the lighthearted elements of the franchise and put a heavier emphasis on the darker tone of the original comics. The animators that worked on the fight sequences were inspired by Hong Kong action films.
TMNT premiered at the Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles on March 17, 2007, and was released theatrically in the United States on March 23, by Warner Bros. Pictures. It was released in Hong Kong on March 29 by Golden Scene, and internationally distributed by The Weinstein Company. The film received mixed reviews from critics, but was a small commercial success, grossing $95.8 million worldwide against a $34 million production budget. Planned sequels were cancelled after Nickelodeon acquired the franchise in 2009, rebooting the film series with a live-action film in 2014.

Title: Greg Baldwin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greg_Baldwin
Excerpt: Greg Baldwin (born September 13, 1960) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles as Uncle Iroh on the third season of Avatar: The Last Airbender and Aku on the fifth season of Samurai Jack, with both being as a voice match for the late Mako Iwamatsu.

Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles in film
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_in_film
Excerpt: The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, a superhero team created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird, have appeared in seven theatrical feature-length films since their debut. The first film was released in 1990, at the height of the franchise's popularity. Despite mixed reviews from critics, it was a commercial success that garnered two direct sequels, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze in 1991 and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III in 1993, both of which were modest successes.  An animated film titled TMNT was released in 2007.
Following the purchase of the Turtles franchise by Viacom in 2009, Paramount Pictures gained the exclusive theatrical film rights. The studio's first film which served as a reboot of the series was released in 2014. A sequel, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows, was released in 2016 and was the first film in the franchise to be considered financially unsuccessful. An animated reboot film, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem was released in 2023. The seven films have grossed $1.3 billion worldwide.