Title: AC/DC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AC/DC
Excerpt: AC/DC are an Australian rock band formed in Sydney in 1973. Their music has been variously described as hard rock, blues rock and heavy metal, although the band calls it simply "rock and roll". They are cited as a formative influence on the new wave of British heavy metal bands, such as Def Leppard and Saxon, and were among "the second generation of rising stars ready to step into the breach as the old guard waned", according to critics.
AC/DC were founded by brothers Angus (lead guitar) and Malcolm Young (rhythm guitar), with Colin Burgess (drums), Larry Van Kriedt (bass guitar) and Dave Evans (lead vocals). They underwent several line-up changes before releasing their Australasian-only debut album, High Voltage (1975). Membership stabilised after the release of Let There Be Rock (1977), with the Young brothers, Phil Rudd on drums, Cliff Williams on bass guitar and Bon Scott on lead vocals. Seven months after the release of Highway to Hell (1979), Scott died of alcohol poisoning and English singer Brian Johnson was then recruited as their new frontman. With Johnson in the line-up, the band recorded one of the best-selling albums of all time, Back in Black (1980). Rudd was fired midway through the Flick of the Switch recording sessions in 1983. He was replaced by Simon Wright, who was also replaced by Chris Slade six years later.
AC/DC experienced a commercial resurgence in the early 1990s with the release of the album The Razors Edge (1990); it was their only record to feature Slade, as Rudd returned in 1994. Rudd has since recorded five more albums with the band, starting with Ballbreaker (1995). In 2014, Malcolm retired due to early-onset dementia, from which he died three years later; additionally, Rudd was charged with threatening to kill and possession of methamphetamine and cannabis. Angus and Malcolm's nephew, Stevie Young, replaced Malcolm and debuted on the album Rock or Bust. On the accompanying tour, Slade filled in for Rudd. In 2016, Guns N' Roses singer Axl Rose replaced Johnson for the rest of the tour dates due to a risk of hearing loss. Williams retired at the end of the tour, and the band entered a two-year hiatus. A reunion of the Rock or Bust line-up was announced in September 2020; the band's seventeenth studio album, Power Up, was released two months later. Its supporting tour was announced in February 2024, with drummer Matt Laug and bass guitarist Chris Chaney replacing Rudd and Williams, though both remain official members.
AC/DC have been estimated to have sold over 200 million records worldwide, making them one of the best-selling artists of all time. They have also sold 84 million records in the US, according to the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The band's accolades include two Grammy Awards, two Guinness World Records, one iHeartRadio Music Award, three ARIA Music Awards, eight APRA Awards – including the Ted Albert Award for Outstanding Services to Australian Music, and an induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 2016, according to Forbes' Celebrity 100, the band have earned $67.5 million.

Title: Phil Rudd
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phil_Rudd
Excerpt: Phillip Hugh Norman Rudd (born Phillip Hugh Norman Witschke Rudzevecuis, 19 May 1954) is an Australian musician, best known as the drummer of AC/DC across three stints (1975–1983, 1994–2015, 2018–present). On the 1977 departure of bass guitarist Mark Evans from AC/DC, Rudd became the only Australian-born member of the band. In 2003, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame along with the other members of AC/DC. In 2014, Rudd released his first solo album, Head Job. Due to ongoing legal problems in New Zealand, where he is a resident, Rudd was unable to join the band for the 2015 Rock or Bust World Tour and was replaced by Chris Slade. On 30 September 2020, AC/DC confirmed that Rudd would be rejoining the band for their comeback album Power Up.

Title: AC/DC discography
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AC/DC_discography
Excerpt: Australian rock band AC/DC have released 17 studio albums, two soundtrack albums, three live albums, one extended play, 57 singles, 11 video albums, 52 music videos and two box sets. Although many AC/DC singles have been released, the band refused to issue any greatest hits albums. Who Made Who, which served as the soundtrack to Stephen King's film Maximum Overdrive, Iron Man 2 and the band's various live recordings are the closest they have issued to such a compilation.
Brothers Angus (lead guitar) and Malcolm Young (rhythm guitar) formed AC/DC in 1973. The band released two albums in Australasia before issuing their first international album, High Voltage in 1976; the Youngs had been joined by vocalist Bon Scott, bass guitarist Mark Evans and drummer Phil Rudd. In 1980, less than a year after the appearance of the successful Highway to Hell, Scott died and was replaced by English singer Brian Johnson, with whom AC/DC released their best-selling album, Back in Black. The album Black Ice, from 2008, reached number one in 29 countries. In 50 years of their career, AC/DC have sold over 200 million albums worldwide, and 83 million in the United States. Back in Black sold 50 million copies worldwide, and became the second best-selling album in history.
Verizon made AC/DC albums available for digital download in 2007; for five years the band refused to release their albums via iTunes, as that company allows downloading of individual tracks. Angus Young observed, "We honestly believe the songs on any of our albums belong together. If we were on iTunes, we know a certain percentage of people would only download two or three songs from the album – and we don't think that represents us musically." However, in November 2012, the band relented and released their entire discography via iTunes. AC/DC’s consistent hard rock sound across decades has been both praised and criticized by music critics. Many reviewers note that the band’s focus on straightforward riffs and high-energy performances helped solidify hard rock’s commercial appeal in the late 1970s and 1980s. According to Rolling Stone, the band’s “unapologetically simple approach created one of the most recognizable sounds in rock history.”  On 30 June 2015, their catalogue appeared on Spotify for the first time, which made their works available for streaming. Their most certified singles in the US are "Thunderstruck" (1990), "Back in Black" (1980), "Highway to Hell" (1979), and "You Shook Me All Night Long" (1980) – each have received Diamond, 7× Platinum, and 6× Platinum and from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in 2024, respectively. In Australia, "Thunderstruck" (1990) was accredited 10× Platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) in 2022.

Title: List of AC/DC members
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_AC/DC_members
Excerpt: AC/DC are  an Australian rock band from Sydney. Formed in November 1973, the group originally consisted of vocalist Dave Evans, lead guitarist Angus Young, rhythm guitarist Malcolm Young (his older brother), bassist Larry Van Kriedt and drummer Colin Burgess. The band's current touring lineup features Angus Young, vocalist Brian Johnson (from 1980 to 2016, and since 2018), rhythm guitarist Stevie Young (nephew of Angus and Malcolm Young, a member since 2014), as well as touring musicians Matt Laug (drums) and Chris Chaney (bass guitar).

Title: Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirty_Deeds_Done_Dirt_Cheap
Excerpt: Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap is the third studio album by Australian hard rock band AC/DC, originally released only in Europe, Australia and New Zealand in 1976. The album was not released in the United States until 1981, more than one year after lead singer Bon Scott's death. This was also AC/DC's first album in its entirety to be recorded with the same lineup, rather than including at least one track recorded with a different bassist or drummer.