Title: Estonian Centre Party
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Estonian_Centre_Party
Excerpt: The Estonian Centre Party (Estonian: Eesti Keskerakond, KE) is a populist political party in Estonia. It was founded in 1991 as a direct successor of the Popular Front of Estonia, and it is currently led by Mihhail Kõlvart.
The party was founded on 12 October 1991 from the basis of the Popular Front of Estonia after several parties split from it. At that time, the party was called the People's Centre Party (Rahvakeskerakond) to differentiate from the smaller centre-right Rural Centre Party (Maa-Keskerakond). The party was a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe until 14 September 2024. On 14 March 2026, the party voted to begin negotiations to join the European Conservatives and Reformists Party.

Title: Democratic Party (United States)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_(United_States)
Excerpt: The Democratic Party is a liberal political party in the United States, sitting on the center to center-left of the political spectrum. Founded in 1828, it is the world's oldest active political party. Its main rival is the Republican Party, and since the 1850s, both have dominated American politics.
The Democratic Party initially supported Jacksonian democracy, agrarianism, and geographical expansionism, while opposing a national bank and high tariffs. Democrats won six of the eight presidential elections from 1828 to 1856, losing twice to the Whigs. In 1860, the party split into Northern and Southern factions over slavery. The party remained dominated by agrarian interests, contrasting with Republican support for the big business of the Gilded Age. Democratic candidates won the presidency only twice between 1860 and 1908, although they won the popular vote two more times in that period. During the Progressive Era, some factions of the party supported progressive reforms, with Woodrow Wilson being elected president in 1912 and 1916.
In 1932, Franklin D. Roosevelt was elected president after campaigning on a strong response to the Great Depression. His New Deal programs created a broad Democratic coalition that united white Southerners, Northern workers, labor unions, African Americans, Catholic and Jewish communities, progressives, and liberals. From the late 1930s, a conservative minority in the party's Southern wing joined with Republicans to slow and stop further progressive domestic reforms. After the civil rights movement and Great Society era of progressive legislation under Lyndon B. Johnson, who was often able to overcome the conservative coalition in the 1960s, many white Southerners switched to the Republican Party as the Northeastern states became more reliably Democratic. The party's labor union element has weakened since the 1970s amid deindustrialization, and during the 1980s it lost many white working-class voters to the Republicans under Ronald Reagan. The election of Bill Clinton in 1992 marked a shift for the party toward centrism and the Third Way, shifting its economic stance toward market-based policies. Barack Obama oversaw passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010, which passed along party lines.
On economic issues, the party favors healthcare reform, paid sick leave, paid family leave and supporting unions. On social issues, it advocates for abortion rights, gun control, LGBTQ rights, action on climate change, the legalization of marijuana, and a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. Since 2016, the party has seen a significant growth in support for progressivism. In foreign policy, the party supports liberal internationalism and aid to Ukraine, as well as tough stances against China and Russia.

Title: Liberal Democrats (UK)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberal_Democrats_(UK)
Excerpt: The Liberal Democrats, colloquially known as the Lib Dems, is a political party in the United Kingdom. Ideologically adhering to liberalism, it was founded in 1988. The party is based at Liberal Democrat Headquarters, which since September 2025 has been located at Buckingham Gate, in the Westminster area of Central London. The party's leader is Ed Davey. It is the third-largest party in the United Kingdom, with 71 members of Parliament (MPs) in the House of Commons. It has 79 members of the House of Lords, 10 in the Scottish Parliament, 1 in the Welsh Senedd, and around 3,200 local council seats. The party holds a twice yearly Liberal Democrat Conference, at which policy is formulated. In contrast to its main opponents, the Lib Dems grant all members attending Conference the right to vote on policy, under a one member, one vote system. As well as voting in the Conference Hall, the party allows its members to vote online for its policies and leadership elections. Members are also free to join organisations representing strands of party thinking, such as Liberal Reform and Social Liberal Forum, and for those under 30 years, Young Liberals.
In 1981, an electoral alliance was established between the Liberal Party, a group which descended from the 18th-century Whigs, and the Social Democratic Party (SDP), a splinter group from the Labour Party. In 1988, the parties merged as the Social and Liberal Democrats, adopting their present name a year later. Under the leaderships of Paddy Ashdown and Charles Kennedy, the party grew in the 1990s and 2000s, focusing its campaigns on specific seats and retained the third-largest party status in the House of Commons, although with significantly more seats than the predecessor Liberal Party. In the 1997 election, the Liberal Democrats doubled their seat count to 46. In 2010, under Nick Clegg's leadership, the Lib Dems were junior partners in the Conservative-led coalition government, in which Clegg served as deputy prime minister. Though it allowed the party to implement some of its policies, the coalition damaged its electoral standing; it lost 48 of its 56 MPs at the 2015 general election, which relegated it to fourth-largest party in the House of Commons. Under the leaderships of Tim Farron, Vince Cable and Jo Swinson, the party refocused as a pro-Europeanist party opposing Brexit. In the 2019 general election, the party garnered 11.5% of the vote on an anti-Brexit platform, but this did not translate into seat gains. However, the party's success was renewed under the leadership of Ed Davey, winning hundreds of councillors and 72 MPs in the 2024 general election, its highest result since 1923, and resuming its status as the third largest party in the House of Commons.
A centrist to centre-left party, the Lib Dems ideologically draw upon liberalism and social democracy. Different factions have dominated the party at different times, each with its own ideological bent. Some factions leaned towards the centre-left, while others were in the centre. The party is a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party (ALDE), and Liberal International. It calls for constitutional reform, including a change from first-past-the-post voting to proportional representation. Emphasising stronger protections for civil liberties, the party promotes social-liberal approaches to issues like LGBT rights, drug liberalisation, education and criminal justice. It favours a market-based economy supplemented with social welfare spending. The party has been described as progressive, and is internationalist and pro-European, and supported the People's Vote for UK membership of the European Union and greater European integration, having previously called for adoption of the euro. The Lib Dems have promoted further environmental protections and opposed British military ventures such as the Iraq War.
The Lib Dems have historically been strongest in northern Scotland, south-west London, South West England, and mid Wales. Membership is primarily made up of middle-class professionals and has a higher proportion of university-educated members than other UK parties. The party is a federation of the English, Scottish, and Welsh Liberal Democrats, and is in a partnership with the Alliance Party of Northern Ireland, while still organising there.

Title: Women in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Women_in_the_House_of_Commons_of_the_United_Kingdom
Excerpt: The representation of women in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom has been an issue in the politics of the United Kingdom at numerous points in the 20th and 21st centuries. Originally debate centred on whether women should be allowed to vote and stand for election as Members of Parliament. The Parliament (Qualification of Women) Act 1918 gave women over 21 the right to stand for election as a Member of Parliament. The United Kingdom has had three female prime ministers: Margaret Thatcher (1979–1990), Theresa May (2016–2019), and Liz Truss (2022). The publication of the book Women in the House by Elizabeth Vallance in 1979 highlighted the under-representation of women in Parliament. In more modern times concerns about the under-representation of women led the Labour Party to introduce and, decades later, abandon all-women short lists, something which was later held to breach discrimination laws.
Between 1918 and 2026, a total of 696 women have been elected as Members of the House of Commons. As of June 2026 there are 266 women in the House of Commons, the highest ever. This is an all-time high at 41%. The previous number was 220, set in 2019, which accounted for 35% of members elected or re-elected that year. Additionally, at the 2024 general election the most female Labour MPs were elected or re-elected (190 women in total) – another instance in Labour's history that this has happened, after 119 in 2017. The female member of Parliament with the longest period of continuous service is informally known as the Mother of the House, who is Diane Abbott, following the 2024 election.

Title: Leader of the Liberal Party of Canada
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leader_of_the_Liberal_Party_of_Canada
Excerpt: The leader of the Liberal Party of Canada (French: chef du Parti libéral du Canada) is the highest political office of the Liberal Party of Canada. The holder of the office is the formal political head of the party as a political organization and its parliamentary caucus in Canada's House of Commons, with specific authority to "speak for the party concerning any political issue".
The current leader is Mark Carney, the current prime minister of Canada. He is the 14th permanent leader. He succeeded former Prime Minister Justin Trudeau as party leader on March 9, 2025, following his victory in the party's leadership election, and succeeded Trudeau as prime minister five days later. Given that the Liberal Party has been one of the two principal contenders for power for most of Canada's history, most of the past holders of this office had served as prime minister.
The leader primarily functions in parliament and, when the party is in power, in government. Past leaders had from time to time designated deputy leaders in parliamentary caucus, or deputy prime ministers in their ministries, and assigned varying additional authorities and responsibilities to such deputies. There is currently no such deputy designated. The leader is also advised and assisted by two individuals holding offices through separate elections: the national caucus chair elected by the party's parliamentary caucus (currently Etobicoke—Lakeshore MP James Maloney); and party president, a volunteer elected by the party's convention to serve as the board chair and executive head of the party's administrative organization (currently Sachit Mehra).