Title: Ralphs
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ralphs
Excerpt: Ralphs is an American supermarket chain in Southern California. The largest subsidiary of Cincinnati-based Kroger, it is the oldest such chain west of the Mississippi River. Kroger also operates stores under the Food 4 Less and Foods Co. names in California.

Title: Stater Bros.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stater_Bros.
Excerpt: Stater Bros. Markets is a privately held supermarket chain, based in San Bernardino, California, consisting of 171 stores located throughout Southern California. It was founded in Yucaipa, California, on August 17, 1936, by twin brothers Cleo and Leo Stater when they purchased the market owned by Cleo's boss, W. A. Davis, with a $600 down payment ($13,921 in 2025 dollars). Cleo recalled to the Inland Empire Business Press in 1998, that the owner of the market across the street from Davis' gave him the other $300 to make the full down payment. Stater Bros. went public in 1964; Cleo, Leo, and their brother Lavoy sold their interests to the now-defunct Long Beach–based Petrolane Gas Service in 1968. The chain has been owned fully by Stater Bros. Holdings, a subsidiary of La Cadena Investments, owned by Stater's late chairman, president and CEO, Jack H. Brown, since 1986.
In 1999, Stater bought 43 plus one future Albertsons and Lucky supermarkets during Albertsons' merger with American Stores. This acquisition expanded Stater into new areas, including the Antelope Valley and San Diego County. It entered the Fortune 500 for the first time in 2006 at #493, the first notable Inland Empire–based company to do so. In 2006, the headquarters began construction of a 2,000,000-square-foot (190,000 m2) facility at San Bernardino International Airport (formerly Norton Air Force Base) from its former location on the Colton–Grand Terrace border. In 2018, Stater sold its SuperRX pharmacy division to CVS.

Title: May Company California
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/May_Company_California
Excerpt: May Company California was an American department store chain founded in 1881 as A. Hamburger & Sons by Asher Hamburger. It was renamed after its acquisition by The May Department Stores Company in 1923. Its flagship store and headquarters were located in Los Angeles, and operated throughout Southern California. It is well-known for its flagship store in downtown Los Angeles and branch store at Wilshire Boulevard and Fairfax Avenue, the latter of which has been featured in several vintage films. The 1926 garage building at 9th Street and Hill Street was one of the first parking structures in the United States, and is a Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monument.
May Company California briefly operated in Nevada when Goldwater's was merged into May Company California and its Las Vegas store was converted. May Company California and J. W. Robinson's were merged and individually dissolved to form Robinsons-May in 1993.

Title: Smart & Final
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smart_%26_Final
Excerpt: Smart & Final is a chain of warehouse-style food and supply stores based in Commerce, California, which developed through a series of mergers and expansions. The oldest of the combined companies, Hellman, Haas & Co., was founded in 1871 in Los Angeles. The company operates over 250 stores in the Western United States and 15 in northwestern Mexico.
While Smart & Final stores target both the food-service and household markets, the company also formerly operated Smart Foodservice Warehouse Stores (formerly known as Cash & Carry), which market to food service professionals.
The stores in Mexico are operated under a joint venture with Calimax. Since 2008, Smart & Final Extra! operates in some parts of the United States. These stores contain a slightly larger footprint and larger assortment of goods.

Title: Builders Emporium
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Builders_Emporium
Excerpt: Builders Emporium was a chain of home improvement stores based in Irvine, California, United States. At the time of its closing in 1993, it had 82 stores in Southern California and an additional 15 in Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona and Texas; 4,300 employees in total.
The chain had a fictional human character, "Pops" Larsen that, in brochures and other media, was portrayed as helping customers with do-it-yourself tasks such as hanging a door.