Title: The Manhattans
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Manhattans
Excerpt: The Manhattans are an American R&B vocal group. Their songs "Kiss and Say Goodbye", recorded in 1976, and 1980's "Shining Star", both sold millions of copies. The Manhattans have recorded 45 hits on the Billboard R&B Chart, including twelve top-10 R&B hits in the United States, starting in 1965. Sixteen of their songs have reached the Billboard Hot 100, including two top 10s and a number-one hit with their song "Kiss and Say Goodbye". They also charted eight U.S. R&B top 20 Albums, three of which were RIAA certified gold. The Manhattans were inducted into The Atlantic City Walk of Fame in September 2024.

Title: Never Can Say Goodbye
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Never_Can_Say_Goodbye
Excerpt: "Never Can Say Goodbye" is a song by American group the Jackson 5 from their fifth studio album, Maybe Tomorrow (1971). It was released on March 16, 1971, by Motown as the album's first single.
The song was written by Clifton Davis and produced by Hal Davis. The song was originally written and intended for the Supremes; however, Motown decided it would be better for the Jackson 5. It has been covered numerous times, most notably in 1974 by Gloria Gaynor and in 1987 by British synth-pop duo the Communards.

Title: The Long Goodbye (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Long_Goodbye_(film)
Excerpt: The Long Goodbye is a 1973 American satirical neo-noir film directed by Robert Altman, adapted by Leigh Brackett from Raymond Chandler's 1953 novel of the same name. The film stars Elliott Gould as Philip Marlowe along with Nina van Pallandt, Sterling Hayden, Mark Rydell, Henry Gibson, David Arkin, and Jim Bouton, and has an early, uncredited appearance by Arnold Schwarzenegger.
The story's setting was moved from the 1940s to 1970s Hollywood. The film has been called "a study of a moral and decent man cast adrift in a selfish, self-obsessed society where lives can be thrown away without a backward glance ... and any notions of friendship and loyalty are meaningless."
United Artists released the film on March 7, 1973. It received mixed to positive reviews upon release, but its critical assessment has grown over time. In 2021, the Library of Congress selected the film for preservation in the United States National Film Registry as "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".

Title: Goodbye Again (1961 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goodbye_Again_(1961_film)
Excerpt: Goodbye Again (released in France as Aimez-vous Brahms?) is a 1961 romantic drama film produced and directed by Anatole Litvak. The screenplay was written by Samuel A. Taylor, based on the novel Aimez-vous Brahms? by Françoise Sagan.  The film, released by United Artists, stars Ingrid Bergman, Anthony Perkins, Yves Montand, and Jessie Royce Landis.

Title: Brat (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brat_(album)
Excerpt: Brat is the sixth studio album by British singer Charli XCX, released on 7 June 2024 through Atlantic Records. It features production by Charli XCX, her longtime executive producer A. G. Cook, Finn Keane, Cirkut, her partner George Daniel, and others. The album draws influence from the 2000s English rave music scene, with a more aggressive club sound than her previous album, Crash (2022).
Commercially, Brat peaked at number one in the UK, Australia, Croatia, Ireland and New Zealand, and reached the top ten in 14 other countries, including the United States, where it marked Charli XCX's highest debut on the Billboard 200 (number three). A deluxe edition, Brat and It's the Same but There's Three More Songs So It's Not, was released on 10 June 2024. A remix album, titled Brat and It's Completely Different but Also Still Brat, featuring 20 guest artists, was released on 11 October 2024.
According to Metacritic, which compiles scores from music critics, Brat is the highest-rated album of 2024 and was the 16th-highest-rated album on the website at the time. The album was shortlisted for the Mercury Prize for 2024 Album of the Year. The cover art and aesthetic originated the cultural phenomenon Brat Summer, and were adopted by U.S. vice president Kamala Harris's 2024 presidential campaign after Charli XCX tweeted about the candidate; however, Charli XCX later stated that she was not being political and the tweet was not meant to be a political endorsement. Brat and its songs were nominated for nine Grammy Awards at the 67th annual ceremony, including Album of the Year, winning three of them, including Best Dance/Electronic Album. During 2024–2025, Charli XCX embarked on the Sweat tour with collaborator Troye Sivan, and the solo Brat Tour in support of the album.