Title: Berkshire Hathaway
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berkshire_Hathaway
Excerpt: Berkshire Hathaway Inc. () is an American multinational conglomerate holding company headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska. Originally a textile manufacturer, the company transitioned into a conglomerate starting in 1965 under the management of chairman and CEO Warren Buffett (from 1970 to 2025) and vice chairman Charlie Munger (from 1978 to 2023). Greg Abel succeeded Buffett as CEO at the beginning of 2026. Buffett personally owns 38.4% of the Class A voting shares of Berkshire Hathaway, representing a 15.1% overall economic interest in the company.
The company is often compared to an investment fund; between 1965, when Buffett gained control of the company, and 2023, the company's shareholder returns amounted to a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 19.8% compared to a 10.2% CAGR for the S&P 500. From 1965 to 2023, the stock price had negative performance in only eleven years. In August 2024, Berkshire Hathaway became the eighth largest U.S. public company and the first non-technology company to be valued at over $1 trillion.
Berkshire Hathaway is ranked 5th on the Fortune 500 and 9th on the Fortune Global 500. In surveys taken in the 2000s and 2010s by Barron's, Berkshire was named among the "Most Respected" companies by professional investors. Berkshire is one of the ten largest components of the S&P 500 and is on the list of largest employers in the United States. Its class A shares have the highest per-share price of any public company in the world, reaching $700,000 in August 2024, because the board of directors has historically been opposed to stock splits.

Title: World Financial Group
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Financial_Group
Excerpt: World Financial Group (WFG) is a multi-level marketing financial and insurance services company based in Johns Creek, Georgia, a suburb of Atlanta, which sells investment, insurance, and various other financial products through a network of distributors in the United States, Canada, and Puerto Rico. It is wholly owned by Dutch life insurance multinational Aegon and operates primarily under the Transamerica brand in the United States.
World Financial Group associates are compensated by selling financial services products and receiving commission overrides from people that agents sponsor into the company.

Title: Eric R. Dinallo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_R._Dinallo
Excerpt: Eric R. Dinallo is a partner and chair of the insurance regulatory practice at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP and a member of the firm's Financial Institutions and White Collar & Regulatory Defense Groups. Formerly Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Counsel at The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America, Inc. Formerly Superintendent of Insurance for New York State, he was nominated by Governor Eliot Spitzer and confirmed by the New York State Senate on April 18, 2007, as the 39th Superintendent of the New York State Insurance Department.  On May 28, 2009, he announced his resignation and subsequently left state government service to become a visiting professor at New York University's Stern School of Business.  On August 24, 2009, Dinallo announced that he was preparing for a possible campaign for the elected office of New York State Attorney General. He was defeated in the primary on September 14, 2010, by Eric T. Schneiderman, who went on to win the office in the general election.

Title: J. Patrick Gallagher Jr
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J._Patrick_Gallagher_Jr
Excerpt: J. Patrick Gallagher Jr is president, chief executive and chairman of the board of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., the US-based global insurance brokerage and risk management services firm headquartered in Rolling Meadows, Illinois. The company was founded by his grandfather, Arthur James Gallagher, in 1927, who later brought his three sons, Robert, John and James, into the business at the end of World War II. The Gallagher family owns approximately 1% of the company, but continues to hold numerous leadership positions.

Title: Corebridge Financial
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corebridge_Financial
Excerpt: Corebridge Financial, Inc. is an American financial services company. It provides annuities, life insurance, retirement plans, wealth management, and other financial services through its four core businesses—individual retirement, life insurance, retirement services, and institutional markets.
Corebridge was formed by an AIG spin-off of the company via IPO in 2022. In 2024, Nippon Life Insurance Company acquired an equity interest in Corebridge Financial from AIG. In 2025, the company joined the Fortune 500.