Title: Mowgli
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mowgli
Excerpt: Mowgli (, MOW-glee) is a fictional character and the protagonist of the Mowgli stories featured among Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book stories. He is a feral boy from the Pench area in Seoni, Madhya Pradesh, India, who originally appeared in Kipling's short story "In the Rukh" (collected in Many Inventions, 1893) and then became the most prominent character in the collections The Jungle Book and The Second Jungle Book (1894–1895), which also featured stories about other (on the basis of Marwar king Rao Sihaji) characters.

Title: List of fictional feral children
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fictional_feral_children
Excerpt: Feral children, children who have lived from a young age without human contact, appear in mythological and fictional works, usually raised by animals. Often their dual heritage is a benefit to them, protecting them from the corrupting influence of human society, such as in Tarzan's case. It may also permit the development and expression of their own animal nature, for example Enkidu, or providing access to the wisdom and lore by which animals survive in the wild, for example Mowgli.
In most tales, the child is lost or abandoned. They are then found and adopted in a chance encounter with a sympathetic wild animal. In some stories, the child chooses to abandon human society or refuses to enter society altogether. The child usually returns to civilization, but may decide to return again to life in the wild. In some cases, they find themselves trapped between worlds, unable to enter entirely into either human society or animal society.

Title: Tarzan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarzan
Excerpt: Tarzan (John Clayton, Viscount Greystoke) is a fictional character, a feral child raised in one of the Congolian rainforests by the Mangani great apes; he later experiences civilization, only to reject it and return to the wild as a heroic adventurer.
Created by Edgar Rice Burroughs, Tarzan first appeared in the novel Tarzan of the Apes (magazine publication 1912, book publication 1914), and subsequently in 23 sequels, several books by Burroughs and other authors, and innumerable works in other media, both authorized and unauthorized.

Title: List of stock characters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_stock_characters
Excerpt: A stock character is a dramatic or literary character representing a generic type in a conventional, simplified manner and recurring in many fictional works. The following list labels some of these stereotypes and provides examples. Some character archetypes, the more universal foundations of fictional characters, are also listed.
Some characters that were first introduced as fully fleshed-out characters become subsequently used as stock characters in other works – for example, the Ebenezer Scrooge character from A Christmas Carol, upon whom the "miser" stereotype is based, and whose name now has become a shorthand for it. Some stock characters incorporate more than one stock character; for example, a bard may also be a wisecracking jester.
Some of the stock characters in this list – reflecting the respective attitudes of the people of the time and the place in which they have been created – in hindsight, may be considered offensive due to their use of racial stereotyping, homophobia, or other prejudice.

Title: List of barefooters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_barefooters
Excerpt: This is a list of notable barefooters, real and fictional; notable people who are known for going barefoot as a part of their public image, and whose barefoot appearance was consistently reported by media or other reliable sources, or depicted in works of fiction dedicated to them.
A barefoot appearance can be a notable characteristic for an individual, as it has been associated with various cultural contexts throughout human history. In Ancient Greece, philosophers like Socrates and Diogenes adopted a barefoot lifestyle, and since the Middle Ages, it was seen as a sign of religious ascetism. In particular, discalceation, the practice of going constantly barefoot or clad only in sandals, is a common feature of Christian mendicant orders, practiced by the Discalced Carmelites (1568), the Feuillant Cistercians (1575), the Trinitarians (1594), the Mercedarians (1604), the Passionists, the Poor Clares and Colettine Poor Clares, and the Descalzas Reales. This is undertaken as part of vows of poverty and humility, as well as a remembrance of Moses on Mount Sinai. Hindu gurus go barefoot to allow their followers to demonstrate their love and respect by pranam, the ceremonial touching of a bare foot. It is also customary in Judaism and some Christian denominations to go barefoot while mourning.
The early 20th century saw the emergence of the barefoot dance movement, pioneered by Isadora Duncan, that anticipated the women's liberation movement and challenged the then prevalent perception of a barefoot appearance as being obscene. In the latter half of the 20th century, many singers, primarily women, have performed barefoot, a tendency that continues in the early 21st century.
Since the 1960s, barefooting has also been associated with counterculture, in particular with the hippie and New Age movements. A July 1967 Time magazine study on hippie philosophy credited the foundation of the hippie movement with historical precedent dating back to the aforementioned religious and spiritual figures of the ancient times, including Diogenes and the sadhu of India.
Following the example of Steve Jobs (who was influenced by the hippie movement), barefooting became a trend in American corporate culture. A number of entrepreneurs maintain a casual public image and appear barefoot or wearing sandals even on formal occasions.
Nowadays people who have a preference for not wearing shoes in public are striving for the recognition of a barefoot lifestyle, against the social stigma associated with barefooting, and for the abolition of laws and regulations that prohibit going barefoot in certain places. In particular, in the 2020s, it became a trend among various celebrities to appear barefoot in public, a tendency reinforced by TikTok.