Title: Serial killer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serial_killer
Excerpt: A serial killer (also called a serial murderer) is an individual who murders three or more people, with the killings taking place over a period of more than one month in three or more separate events, and the killings having a motive of perverse satisfaction.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) states that the motives of serial killers can include anger, thrill-seeking, attention seeking, and financial gain. The victims tend to have things in common, such as demographic profile, appearance, gender, or race. As a group, serial killers have a variety of personality disorders. They are often not adjudicated as insane under the law. The primary motivations for serial killing involve some form of psychological gratification, usually though not always sexual.

Title: Mark David Chapman
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_David_Chapman
Excerpt: Mark David Chapman (born May 10, 1955) is an American man who murdered musician John Lennon in New York City on December 8, 1980. As Lennon walked into the archway of the Dakota, his apartment building on the Upper West Side, Chapman fired five shots at him from a few yards away with a Charter Arms Undercover .38 Special revolver; Lennon was hit four times from the back. He was rushed to Roosevelt Hospital and pronounced dead on arrival. Chapman remained at the scene following the shooting and made no attempt to flee or resist arrest.
Raised in Decatur, Georgia, Chapman was a fan of the Beatles but later grew infuriated by Lennon's lavish lifestyle, the lyrics of "God" and "Imagine", and public statements such as his remark about the band being "more popular than Jesus". The J. D. Salinger novel The Catcher in the Rye took on great personal significance for Chapman, to the extent that he wished to model his life after its protagonist, Holden Caulfield, and planned to cite it as his manifesto. Chapman also contemplated killing other public figures, including Paul McCartney and Ronald Reagan. He had no prior criminal convictions and had recently resigned from a job as a security guard in Hawaii.
Chapman's legal team initially intended to mount an insanity defense based on the testimony of mental health experts who said that he was in a delusional psychotic state at the time of the shooting. However, he was more cooperative with the prosecutor, who argued that his symptoms fell short of a schizophrenia diagnosis. As the trial approached, Chapman instructed his lawyers that he wanted to plead guilty to murder based on what he had decided was the will of God. The judge granted Chapman's request and deemed him competent to stand trial. He was sentenced to a prison term of 20 years to life with a stipulation that mental health treatment would be provided.
Chapman refused requests for press interviews during his first six years in prison; he later said that he regretted the murder and did not intend to seek fame and notoriety. He ultimately supplied audiotaped interviews to journalist Jack Jones, who used them to write the 1992 investigative book Let Me Take You Down: Inside the Mind of Mark David Chapman. In 2000, Chapman became eligible for parole, which has since been denied 14 times.

Title: List of serial killers by number of victims
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_serial_killers_by_number_of_victims
Excerpt: A serial killer is typically a person who murders three or more people, in two or more separate events over a period of time, for primarily psychological reasons. There are gaps of time between the killings, which may range from a few days to months, or many years.
This list shows all known serial killers from the 20th century to present day by number of victims, then possible victims, then date. For those from previous centuries, see List of serial killers before 1900. In many cases, the exact number of victims assigned to a serial killer is not known, and even if that person is convicted of some, there can be the possibility that they killed many more.
Organization and ranking of serial killings is made difficult by the complex nature of serial killers and incomplete knowledge of the full extent of many killers' crimes. To address this, multiple categories have been provided in order to more accurately describe the nature of certain serial murders. This is not a reflection of an individual's overall rank, which may or may not vary depending on personal opinion concerning the nature and circumstances of their crimes. The fourth column in the table states the number of victims definitely assigned to that particular serial killer, and thus the table is in order of that figure. The fifth column states the number of possible victims the killer could have murdered. Some of these crimes are unsolved, but are included because they are the work of a serial killer, despite nobody being caught.
This list does not include mass murderers, spree killers, war criminals, members of democidal governments, or major political figures, such as Adolf Hitler, Francisco Franco, Hideki Tojo, Suharto, Mao Zedong, Joseph Stalin, or Pol Pot.

Title: Jack the Ripper
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jack_the_Ripper
Excerpt: Jack the Ripper was an unidentified serial killer active in and around the impoverished Whitechapel district of the East End of London, in 1888. In both criminal case files and the contemporaneous journalistic accounts, the killer was also called the Whitechapel Murderer and Leather Apron.
Attacks ascribed to Jack the Ripper typically involved women working as prostitutes who lived in the slums of the East End of London. Their throats were cut prior to abdominal mutilations. The removal of internal organs from at least three of the victims led to speculation that the killer had some anatomical or surgical knowledge. Rumours that the murders were connected intensified in September and October 1888, and numerous letters were received by media outlets and Scotland Yard from people purporting to be the murderer.
The name "Jack the Ripper" originated in the "Dear Boss letter" written by someone claiming to be the murderer, which was disseminated in the press. The letter is widely believed to have been a hoax and may have been written by journalists to heighten interest in the story and increase their newspapers' circulation. Another, the "From Hell letter", was received by George Lusk of the Whitechapel Vigilance Committee and came with half a preserved human kidney, purportedly taken from one of the victims. The public came to believe in the existence of a single serial killer known as Jack the Ripper, mainly because of both the extraordinarily brutal nature of the murders and extensive media coverage of the crimes.
Extensive newspaper coverage bestowed enduring international notoriety on the Ripper, and the legend solidified. A police investigation into a series of eleven brutal murders committed in Whitechapel and Spitalfields between 1888 and 1891 was unable to connect all the killings conclusively to the 1888 murders. Five victims – Mary Ann Nichols, Annie Chapman, Elizabeth Stride, Catherine Eddowes and Mary Jane Kelly – are known as the "canonical five", and their murders between 31 August and 9 November 1888 are often considered the most likely to be linked. The murders were never solved, and the legends surrounding these crimes have since become a combination of historical research, folklore and pseudohistory, capturing public imagination to the present day.

Title: Ann Burgess
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ann_Burgess
Excerpt: Ann C. Wolbert Burgess (born October 2, 1936) is an American researcher and psychiatric clinical nurse specialist whose work has focused on victims of trauma and abuse, and is author of A Killer by Design: Murderers, Mindhunters, and My Quest to Decipher the Criminal Mind (2021) and Expert Witness: The Weight of Our Testimony When Justice Hangs in the Balance (2025). She is a professor at the William F. Connell School of Nursing at Boston College and professor emerita at the University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing. She received her master's degree from the University of Maryland and her doctorate from Boston University.