Title: Indentured servitude
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indentured_servitude
Excerpt: Indentured servitude is a form of labor in which a person is contracted to work without salary for a specific number of years. The contract, called an "indenture", may be entered voluntarily for a prepaid lump sum, as payment for some good or service (e.g. travel), purported eventual compensation, or debt repayment. An indenture may also be imposed involuntarily as a judicial punishment. The practice has been compared to the similar institution of slavery, although there are differences.
Like any loan, an indenture could be sold. Most masters had to depend on middlemen or ships' masters to recruit and transport the workers, so indentureships were commonly sold by such men to planters or others upon the ships' arrival. Like slaves, their prices went up or down, depending on supply and demand. When the indenture (loan) was paid off, the worker was free but not always in good health or of sound body. Sometimes they might be given a plot of land or a small sum to buy it, but the land was usually poor. While most indentured laborers were adults, children could also be indentured, shifting the upkeep of the child to the contract holder but also giving the contract holder the benefit of the child's labour.

Title: Bacha bazi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bacha_bazi
Excerpt: Bacha bazi (Persian: بچه بازی, lit. 'boy play') is a pederastic practice in which men exploit and enslave adolescent boys, sometimes for sexual abuse, or coerce them to cross-dress in attire traditionally only worn by women and girls and dance for entertainment. The man exploiting the young boy is called a bacha baz (literally "boy player") and the young boy is called a bacha.
Often, the boys come from an impoverished and vulnerable situation such as street children, mainly without relatives or abducted from their families. In some cases, families facing extreme poverty or starvation may feel compelled to sell their young sons to a bacha baz or allow them to be "adopted" in exchange for food or money. The bachas are obliged to serve their patrons and their wishes, through cross-dressing and sexual entertainment. Bachas are primarily exploited for entertainment, but they have also been used for daily tasks in war, and for becoming bodyguards. Facing social stigma and sexual abuse, the young boys, who often despise their captors, struggle with psychological effects from the abuse and suffer from emotional trauma for life, including turning to drugs and alcohol.

Title: Languages of Brazil
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Languages_of_Brazil
Excerpt: Portuguese is the official and national language of Brazil, being widely spoken by nearly all of its population. Brazil is the most populous Portuguese-speaking country in the world, with its lands comprising the majority of Portugal's former colonial holdings in the Americas.
Aside from Portuguese, the country also has numerous minority languages, including over 200 different indigenous languages, such as Nheengatu (a descendant of Tupi), and languages of more recent European and Asian immigrants, such as Italian, German and Japanese. In some municipalities, those minor languages have official status: Nheengatu, for example, is an official language in São Gabriel da Cachoeira, while a number of German dialects are official in nine southern municipalities.
Hunsrik (also known as Riograndenser Hunsrückisch) is a Germanic language also spoken in Argentina, Paraguay and Venezuela, which derived from the Hunsrückisch dialect. Hunsrik has official status in Antônio Carlos and Santa Maria do Herval, and is recognized by the states of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina as part of their historical and cultural heritage.
As of 2023, the population of Brazil speaks or signs 238 languages, of which approximately 217 are indigenous and others are non-indigenous. In 2005, no indigenous language was spoken by more than 40,000 people.
With the implementation of the Orthographic Agreement of 1990, the orthographic norms of Brazil and Portugal have been largely unified, but still have some minor differences. Brazil enacted these changes in 2009 and Portugal enacted them in 2012.
In 2002, the Brazilian Sign Language (Libras) was made the official language of the Brazilian deaf community.
On December 9, 2010, the National Inventory of Linguistic Diversity was created, which will analyze proposals for revitalizing minority languages in the country. In 2019, the Technical Commission of the National Inventory of Linguistic Diversity was established.

Title: European immigration to Brazil
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_immigration_to_Brazil
Excerpt: European immigration to Brazil refers to the movement of European people to Brazil. It should not be confused with the colonisation of the country by the Portuguese.
According to the 2022 census, 88.8% (180 million) of Brazilians are of European descent.
43.46% (88 million) are of European descent only and identify as White.
45.34% (92 million) are descendants of Europeans mixed with Africans or indigenous people and declare themselves as Pardo.

Title: Saraiva-Cotegipe Law
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saraiva-Cotegipe_Law
Excerpt: The Saraiva-Cotegipe Law (Portuguese: Lei Saraiva-Cotegipe), also known as the Sexagenarian Law (Lei dos Sexagenários), officially Law No. 3,270 of 28 September 1885, was a Brazilian law enacted on 28 September 1885 that granted freedom to slaves aged 60 or older. Before the release, there would be mandatory and free service, which would be provided as compensation, paid to the slaves' masters; unless the slave reached 65 years of age.