Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles
Excerpt: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (TMNT) is an American media franchise created by comic book artists Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. It follows Leonardo, Donatello, Raphael and Michelangelo, four anthropomorphic turtle brothers trained in ninjutsu who fight evil in New York City. The franchise encompasses printed media, television series, feature films, video games, and merchandise.
The franchise began as a comic book, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, which Eastman and Laird conceived as a parody of elements popular in superhero comics at the time. The first issue was published in 1984 by Eastman and Laird's company Mirage Studios and was a surprise success. In 1987, Eastman and Laird licensed the characters to Playmates Toys, which developed a line of Turtles action figures. About $1.1 billion worth of Turtles toys were sold between 1988 and 1992, making them the third-bestselling toy figures ever at the time.
The action figures were promoted with an animated series, which premiered in 1987 and ran for almost a decade. It was succeeded by several other television series. The first Turtles video game was released in 1989, the first of several developed by the Japanese company Konami. The first Turtles film, released in 1990, became the highest-grossing independent film up to that point.
Eastman sold his share of the Turtles franchise to Laird in 2000. In 2009, Laird sold it to Viacom, now Paramount Skydance Corporation. The franchise has continued with a new comic book series, television series, films and video games.

Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1987 TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_(1987_TV_series)
Excerpt: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (also known as Teenage Mutant Hero Turtles in some regions) is an American animated television series produced by Fred Wolf Films and based on the comic book characters created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. Set in New York City, the series follows the adventures of the eponymous Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and their allies as they battle the Shredder, Krang, and numerous other villains and criminals. The property was changed considerably from the darker-toned comics, to make it more suitable for children and families.
The pilot was shown during the week of December 28, 1987, in syndication as a five-part miniseries, and the show began its full-time run on October 1, 1988, and ended on November 2, 1996. The show was the first television appearance of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, and helped launch the characters into mainstream popularity, becoming one of the most popular animated series in television history. Action figures, breakfast cereals, plush toys, and other merchandise featuring the characters appeared on the market during the late 1980s and early 1990s and became top sellers worldwide. By 1990, the series was being shown daily on more than 125 television stations.
Characters from the show have been included in crossovers with later entries of the franchise, including the 2009 film Turtles Forever and recurring roles in the 2012 TV series for Nickelodeon.

Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_II:_The_Secret_of_the_Ooze
Excerpt: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze is a 1991 American superhero comedy film directed by Michael Pressman and written by Todd W. Langen. Based on the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles characters created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird, it is the sequel to Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990) and stars Paige Turco (replacing Judith Hoag as April O'Neil) and David Warner. Picking up after the events of the first film, the Turtles once again face off against the Shredder and the Foot Clan, as both sides uncover the truth behind the Turtles' mutagenic origins. 
The film was released theatrically in the United States on March 22, 1991, by New Line Cinema. It received mixed reviews from critics, who said it departed from the much darker tone of the original 1990 film. It was financially successful, grossing $78.7 million against a budget of $25 million, becoming the thirteenth highest-grossing film domestically in the year of its release. A sequel, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III, was released in 1993.

Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_III
Excerpt: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III is a 1993 superhero film written and directed by Stuart Gillard, based on the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles characters created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. It is the sequel to Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990) and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze (1991). The film is an American-Hong Kong co-production and stars Elias Koteas, Paige Turco, Vivian Wu, Sab Shimono, and Stuart Wilson. The plot revolves around a mystical scepter which transports the Turtles and April back in time to feudal Japan, where they become embroiled in a conflict between a daimyō and a group of rebellious villagers.
The film was released theatrically in the United States on March 19, 1993, by New Line Cinema. It received mostly negative reviews from critics, with a general consensus that the film did not feature any villains and stories from the original Mirage comics or the 1987 animated series, and the franchise had run its course. The film received moderate box office success, though it was the lowest-grossing entry in the series, grossing $54.4 million against a budget of $21 million.

Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (Mirage Studios)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_(Mirage_Studios)
Excerpt: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (TMNT) is a comic book series that was published by Mirage Studios between 1984 and 2014. Conceived by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird, it was intended as a one-shot, but due to its popularity it became an ongoing series. The comic created the Turtles franchise of five television series, seven feature films, numerous video games, and a range of toys and merchandise.
Notable for its black and white format and darker tone compared to later adaptations, the series follows the exploits of four genetically mutated turtles trained in ninjutsu and martial arts by the mutated rat sensei Splinter to combat various foes, most notably the evil ninja clan known only as the "Foot", and their leader Oroku Saki, the samurai-esque "Shredder".
Over the years, the Turtles have appeared in numerous cross-overs with other independent comics characters such as Dave Sim's Cerebus, Bob Burden's Flaming Carrot, Stan Sakai's Usagi Yojimbo, Image Universe series including Erik Larsen's Savage Dragon and Todd McFarlane's Spawn.
In October 2009, Laird sold the rights to the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles franchise to Viacom, the parent company of Nickelodeon. Mirage Studios was shut down on September 19, 2021. In 2011, IDW Publishing secured the rights to publish a new series and reprint the older comics.