Title: Hispanic and Latino Americans
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hispanic_and_Latino_Americans
Excerpt: Hispanic and Latino Americans are Americans who have a Hispanic or Latino American background, culture, or family origin. This demographic group includes all Americans who identify as Hispanic or Latino, regardless of race. According to annual estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau, as of July 1, 2024, the Hispanic and Latino population was estimated at 68,086,153, representing approximately 20% of the total U.S. population, making them the second-largest group in the country after the non-Hispanic White population.
"Origin" can be viewed as the ancestry, nationality group, lineage or country of birth of the person, parents or ancestors before their arrival into the United States of America. People who identify as Hispanic or Latino may be of any race, because similarly to what occurred during the colonization and post-independence of the United States, Latin American countries have had populations made up of multiracial and monoracial descendants of settlers from the metropole of a European colonial empire (in the case of Latin American countries, Spanish and Portuguese settlers, unlike the Thirteen Colonies that will form the United States, which received settlers from the United Kingdom). Hispanics and Latinos of mixed European and Indigenous ancestry are sometimes known as mestizos. In addition, there are also Indigenous peoples of the Americas (Native Americans), descendants of African slaves brought to Latin America in the colonial era, and post-independence immigrants from Europe, the Middle East, and East Asia.
As one of only two specifically-designated categories of ethnicity in the United States (under the technical label of "Hispanic or Latino"; the other category being under the technical label of "Not Hispanic or Latino"), Hispanics and Latinos form a pan-ethnicity incorporating a diversity of inter-related cultural and linguistic heritages, in which use of the Spanish language is the most important common element. The largest national origin groups of Hispanic and Latino Americans in order of population size are: Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Salvadoran, Dominican, Panamanian, Colombian, Chilean, Argentine, Guatemalan, Honduran, Costa Rican, Ecuadorian, Peruvian, Uruguayan, Venezuelan, Spanish and Nicaraguan. Although commonly embraced by Latino communities, Brazilians are officially not considered Hispanic. The predominant origin of regional Hispanic and Latino populations varies widely in different locations across the country. In 2012, Hispanic Americans were the second fastest-growing ethnic group by percentage growth in the United States after Asian Americans.
Hispanic Americans of mixed Indigenous descent and European (typically Spanish) descent are the second oldest racial group (after the Native Americans) to inhabit much of what is today the United States. Spain colonized large areas of what is today the American Southwest and West Coast, as well as Florida. Its holdings included all of present-day California, Nevada, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas and Florida, as well as parts of Wyoming, Colorado, Kansas and Oklahoma, all of which constituted part of the Viceroyalty of New Spain, based in Mexico City. Later, this vast territory (except Florida, which Spain ceded to the United States in 1821) became part of Mexico after its independence from Spain in 1821 and until the end of the Mexican–American War in 1848.

Title: List of sports rivalries
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_sports_rivalries
Excerpt: A sports rivalry is intense competition between athletic teams or athletes, affecting participants, management, and supporters all to varying degrees.
One of the first known sports rivalries occurred in the Roman Empire between the Blues and the Greens, and the minor teams of the Reds and Whites, each of which were chariot racing clubs competing at the Hippodrome in Constantinople. The rivalry took on political tones as well, coming close to deposing the Roman Emperor Justinian in 532 CE in a riot and the suppression of the riot killed tens of thousands of people.
Owners have been known to encourage rivalries as they tend to improve game attendance and television ratings for rivalry matches. Clubs can reduce fan aggression surrounding rivalry games by acknowledging rather than downplaying the conflict because the rivalry is an integral part of fan identity.
Games between two rivals that are based in areas of close geographical proximity are often known as a local derby, or simply just a derby (UK:  DAH-bee, US:  DUR-bee); a sporting event between two teams from the same town, city or region. In modern usage the term is usually connected with association football and the media and supporters will often refer to this fixture as "Derby Day". However, and unsurprisingly, the first recorded use of the term was to refer to major provincial horse races from a time when the Epsom Derby, was not only England’s major sporting event but also a huge social occasion.
For example, the Western Times, 2 June 1860, refers to a race meeting at Haldon, Exeter, as their "local Derby Day." The Hull Packet, 31 May 1861, calls the Beverley, Hull and East Riding Races "our local Derby." It would appear that the term was already in use elsewhere in the world – The Ballarat Star (Victoria, Australia), 6 December 1860 edition, mentions that races in Dowling Forest were "the local Derby day."
The metaphor evidently seeped into common usage, as non-racing events also earned the epithet. An athletic club fete in Croydon (Norwood News, 22 May 1869), a rowing regatta at Bathgate, Scotland (Lothian Courier, 26 September 1874) and even a hotly contested local government election (Croydon Advertiser, 27 February 1875) were all described as a local Derby.
As club football (Rugby and Association codes) gained popularity in the 1870s and 1880s the phrase migrated to that pastime. The Preston Herald of 14 March 1883 said of a fixture between Low Moor and Clitheroe that "when it becomes known that the clubs are likely to meet, popular feeling runs high – so high, in fact, that the occasional is recognised as the local Derby day".
The Epsom Derby being an annual event, early usage tended to refer only to the biggest occasion of the year in a certain location – the Widnes Weekly News (16 March 1889) was moved to describe a match between Widnes FC and the touring New Zealand Native touring rugby team as "the great day of the season at Widnes – the local Derby." However, in football terms, the emphasis in the phrase had already shifted from the Derby aspect (a red letter day in the sporting or social calendar) to the local element – any football match involving nearby clubs, no matter how relatively unimportant the fixture might otherwise be. Hence the Burnley Express (15 December 1888) felt able to report that "for three weeks in succession the Langroyd team will be engaged in local "Derbies." First of all, Union Star; then Nelson, at Seed Hill; and afterwards Brierfield at Colne."
In rugby football, an early example of the term for that code appears in the Wigan Observer of 11 December 1885 which noted that "the local "Derby" in the football circles of Pemberton was brought off on Saturday last, when Highfield and Pemberton met."
Since at least as early as 1840 'derby' has been used as a noun in English to denote any kind of sporting contest. Other names for derbies include Clásicos in certain parts of the world and crosstown rivalries in the United States.
The intensity of the rivalry can range anywhere from a light hearted banter to serious violence. A rivalry that gets out of control can lead to fighting, hooliganism, rioting and some instances with career-ending and even fatal consequences. In the "Football War", along with other factors, it was suggested to have been the tipping point in leading to military conflicts.
Rivalries do not always stem from the sharing of an area. Hostilities can occur for different reasons, such as in the case of El Clásico with tensions between fans with a background of political differences. Frequent meetings in important games between teams can also lead to unpleasantries.

Title: Presidency of Pedro Castillo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Presidency_of_Pedro_Castillo
Excerpt: The presidency of Pedro Castillo began with Castillo's inauguration as the president of Peru on 28 July 2021, the Peruvian Independence Day. In the 2021 Peruvian general election, Castillo, a school teacher and union organizer, won the presidential election against the right-wing candidate Keiko Fujimori of Popular Force by a 45,000 margin in the runoff. In the congressional elections, Castillo's party, Free Peru, did not get a majority in the Congress of the Republic of Peru.

Title: List of organisms named after famous people (born 1800–1899)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_organisms_named_after_famous_people_(born_1800%E2%80%931899)
Excerpt: In biological nomenclature, organisms often receive scientific names that honor a person. A taxon (e.g. species or genus; plural: taxa) named in honor of another entity is an eponymous taxon, and names specifically honoring a person or persons are known as patronyms. Scientific names are generally formally published in peer-reviewed journal articles or larger monographs along with descriptions of the named taxa and ways to distinguish them from other taxa. Following rules of Latin grammar, species or subspecies names derived from a man's name often end in -i or -ii if named for an individual, and -orum if named for a group of men or mixed-sex group, such as a family. Similarly, those named for a woman often end in -ae, or -arum for two or more women.
This list is part of the List of organisms named after famous people, and includes organisms named after famous individuals born between 1 January 1800 and 31 December 1899. It also includes ensembles in which at least one member was born within those dates; but excludes companies, institutions, ethnic groups or nationalities, and populated places. It does not include organisms named for fictional entities (which can be found in the List of organisms named after works of fiction), for biologists, paleontologists or other natural scientists, nor for associates or family members of researchers who were not otherwise notable; exceptions are made, however, for natural scientists who are much more famous for other aspects of their lives, such as, for example, writers Vladimir Nabokov or Beatrix Potter.
Organisms named after famous people born earlier can be found in:

List of organisms named after famous people (born before 1800)
Organisms named after famous people born later can be found in:

List of organisms named after famous people (born 1900–1924)
List of organisms named after famous people (born 1925–1949)
List of organisms named after famous people (born 1950–1974)
List of organisms named after famous people (born 1975–present)
The scientific names are given as originally described (their basionyms); subsequent research may have placed species in different genera, or rendered them taxonomic synonyms of previously described taxa. Some of these names may be unavailable in the zoological sense or illegitimate in the botanical sense due to senior homonyms already having the same name.