Title: The Tonight Show
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Tonight_Show
Excerpt: The Tonight Show is an American late-night talk show that has been broadcast on NBC since 1954. The program has been hosted by seven comedians: Steve Allen (1954–1957), Ernie Kovacs (1956–1957), Jack Paar (1957–1962), Johnny Carson (1962–1992), Jay Leno (1992–2009 and 2010–2014), Conan O'Brien (2009–2010) and Jimmy Fallon (since 2014).
Besides the main hosts, a number of regular "guest hosts" have been used, notably Ernie Kovacs, who hosted his own version of Tonight two nights per week during 1956–1957, and a number of guest hosts used by Carson, who curtailed his own hosting duties back to three nights per week by the 1980s. Among Carson's regular guest hosts were Joey Bishop,  McLean Stevenson, David Letterman, David Brenner, Garry Shandling and Joan Rivers, with his final regular guest host being his eventual successor Jay Leno. The practice of hiring guest hosts has been mostly discontinued by Leno and his successors, who prefer airing reruns to showcasing potential rivals.
The Tonight Show is the world's longest-running talk show and the longest-running regularly scheduled entertainment program in the United States. It is the third-longest-running show on NBC, after the news-and-talk shows Today and Meet the Press. The current incarnation is taped from Studio 6B at NBC Studios in Rockefeller Center in New York, the same studio used during the later Jack Paar era and the first 10 years of Carson. During its initial run under Steve Allen, it originated from the Hudson Theatre on Broadway. From 1973 to 2009, and from 2010 to 2014 the show was taped at one of three different studios at NBC's Burbank, California Studios. During Conan O'Brien's brief tenure, the show was taped at an opulently reworked studio on Stage 1 of Universal Studios Hollywood. 
Over the course of almost 70 years, The Tonight Show has undergone only minor title changes. It aired under the name Tonight for several of its early years, as well as Tonight Starring Jack Paar and The Jack Paar Show due to the runaway popularity of its host, eventually settling permanently on The Tonight Show after Carson began his tenure in 1962, albeit with the host's name always included in the title. Beginning with Carson's debut episode, network programmers, advertisers, and the show's announcers would refer to the show by including the name of the host: The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien and currently, The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon. In the 1950s and 1960s, TV listings publications such as TV Guide often listed the show as simply Jack Parr or Johnny Carson.  
In 1957, the show briefly tried a more news-style format (during which time its title was adjusted to Tonight! America After Dark). It has otherwise adhered to the talk show format introduced by Allen and honed further by Paar.
Carson is the longest-serving host to date, although he is not the host with the most episodes. The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson aired for 30 seasons between October 1962 and May 1992. Leno has the record of having hosted the greatest number of total televised episodes. Leno's record is due to the fact that, unlike Carson (who only produced new shows three days a week, these being typically Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, starting in the 1980s), Leno also never used guest hosts on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno (except Katie Couric once) and produced new shows five days a week; Leno himself was also Carson's primary guest host for the last five years of Carson's tenure, adding even more episodes to his credit. Leaving out Leno's five years as permanent guest host, Leno hosted 119 more episodes as full-time host than Carson.
During Carson's first four years, the show ran for 105 minutes and then was reduced to ninety minutes in early 1967 when Carson stopped appearing for the first 15 minutes because most affiliates were carrying their local news during that time slot as they expanded to half an hour. During Carson's 1980 contract negotiations, the show was shortened to sixty minutes beginning that September, where it has remained since. NBC also broadcast The Best of Carson which were repeats of some of Carson's popular older albeit usually recent shows. Prior to the debut of Saturday Night Live in October 1975, NBC aired The Best of Carson on Saturday nights at 11:30 pm. During Leno's tenure as permanent guest host, The Best of Carson usually aired on Mondays with Leno hosting on Tuesdays.
Also featuring prominently on Carson's show was his sidekick Ed McMahon, who introduced Carson and typically appeared alongside him for the entire episode. By the end of Carson's tenure, McMahon usually only appeared in episodes hosted by Carson, and the use of a sidekick in such a manner has not been continued under Leno and his successors. 
Apart from the show's brief run as a news show in 1957, its shortest-serving host was Conan O'Brien, who went on to continue hosting a late-night program following his controversial departure. O'Brien hosted 146 episodes over the course of fewer than eight months before Leno was brought back as host, where he served for almost four additional years. Host Fallon debuted on February 17, 2014. Fallon had previously hosted Late Night with Jimmy Fallon, and before Late Night he was a popular member of the cast of Saturday Night Live, co-hosting the "Weekend Update" segment with Tina Fey as well as performing sketches.

Title: Karen Page
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karen_Page
Excerpt: Karen Page is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics created by Stan Lee and Bill Everett. She served as the original love interest for Daredevil, working as an office manager for him and Foggy Nelson at their law firm. Page was killed by Bullseye in Daredevil #5 (March 1999), and has remained dead since.
Karen Page was first portrayed in a cameo by Ellen Pompeo in the film Daredevil (2003). Deborah Ann Woll portrays the character in television series of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), including Daredevil (2015–2018), The Defenders (2017), The Punisher (2017–2019), Daredevil: Born Again (2025–present) and The Punisher: One Last Kill (2026).

Title: The Itchy & Scratchy Show
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Itchy_%26_Scratchy_Show
Excerpt: The Itchy & Scratchy Show (often shortened as Itchy & Scratchy) is a fictional animated series featured on The Simpsons. The cartoon depicts an anthropomorphic sadistic house mouse named Itchy who repeatedly maims or murders an anthropomorphic black cat named Scratchy. It is typically presented as 15- to 60-second sketches that are a part of The Krusty the Clown Show that almost invariably prompts laughter from Bart and Lisa.
The Itchy and Scratchy characters are adult-oriented, extremely violent, bloody, gory, and gruesome parodies of cat-and-mouse cartoons such as Tom and Jerry, Herman and Katnip, and Pixie and Dixie and Mr. Jinks. The Italian comic strip Squeak the Mouse, itself a parody of Tom and Jerry, is also considered to be a strong inspiration and influence for the characters.
The cartoon first appeared in The Tracey Ullman Show short "The Bart Simpson Show", which aired in 1988. The cartoon's first appearance in The Simpsons was in the 1990 episode "There's No Disgrace Like Home". The cartoons became popular among the show's writers and animators, and they are often added when an episode needs expanding. Several full episodes were centered on the fictional production of Itchy & Scratchy, such as "Itchy & Scratchy & Marge".

Title: Super (2010 American film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_(2010_American_film)
Excerpt: Super is a 2010 American black comedy superhero film written and directed by James Gunn. It stars Rainn Wilson, Elliot Page, Liv Tyler, Kevin Bacon, and Nathan Fillion. The film follows an ordinary man who becomes a masked superhero called the Crimson Bolt, uses savage violence to compensate for his lack of superhuman abilities, and sets out to rescue his wife from a drug dealer.
Super premiered at the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival on September 12, 2010, and was released in theaters in the United States on April 1, 2011, and on video on demand on April 13 by IFC Midnight. The film was released unrated in U.S. theaters, and later received an R rating for its DVD and Blu-ray release. It received mixed reviews from critics and due to a limited release the film was a box office failure that grossed just $593,933 on a budget of $2.5 million.
The film has since been considered a cult classic, particularly among fans who appreciate its subversive and unconventional approach to the superhero genre.

Title: Out West (The Ren & Stimpy Show)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Out_West_(The_Ren_%26_Stimpy_Show)
Excerpt: "Out West" is the fourth episode of the second season of The Ren & Stimpy Show. It originally aired on Nickelodeon in the United States on August 29, 1992.