Title: United States Armed Forces
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Armed_Forces
Excerpt: The United States Armed Forces are the military forces of the United States. United States federal law establishes six armed forces: the Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force, Space Force, and Coast Guard, each assigned specific roles and operational domains. With the exception of the Coast Guard, which operates under the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in peacetime, the services are organized under the Department of Defense (DoD).
Established during the American Revolutionary War, the Army and the Navy, and later the other services, have played a decisive role in the country's history. They contributed to early national consolidation through conflicts such as the Barbary Wars and the War of 1812, shaped the country's territorial evolution, and were involved in global conflicts including World War I, World War II, the Cold War, and the war on terror. The National Security Act of 1947 reorganized the military establishment by creating the DoD, the Air Force, and the National Security Council; in 1949, an amendment to the act merged the cabinet-level departments of the Army, Navy, and Air Force into the DoD. formalizing a unified defense structure under civilian control. The Space Force was established in 2019 as the newest branch.
The president of the U.S. serves as commander-in-chief and exercises authority over the armed forces through the DoD and, for the Coast Guard in peacetime, DHS. Since 1973, the United States has maintained an all-volunteer force, although the Selective Service System remains authorized to conscript most male citizens and residents aged 18 and 25 to register. All six services are also among the eight uniformed services of the United States. The armed forces consist of active-duty personnel, Reserve components, and the National Guard.
The U.S. Armed Forces are widely considered the world's most powerful and most advanced military. The military expenditure of the U.S. was US $957 billion in 2025, the highest in the world, accounting for 33% of the world's military expenditures. The personnel size of the six armed forces together ranks them among the world's largest state armed forces. The U.S. Armed Forces has significant capabilities in both defense and power projection due to its large budget, resulting in advanced and powerful technologies which enable widespread deployment of the force globally, including around 800 military bases around the world.

Title: Battle of Britain
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Britain
Excerpt: The Battle of Britain (German: Luftschlacht um England, lit. 'air battle for England') was a military campaign of the Second World War, in which the Royal Air Force (RAF) and the Fleet Air Arm (FAA) of the Royal Navy defended the United Kingdom against large-scale attacks by Nazi Germany's air force, the Luftwaffe. It was the first major military campaign fought entirely by air forces. It takes its name from the speech given by Prime Minister Winston Churchill to the House of Commons on 18 June 1940: "What General Weygand called the 'Battle of France' is over. I expect that the Battle of Britain is about to begin."
The Germans had rapidly overwhelmed France and the Low Countries in the Battle of France, leaving Britain to face the threat of invasion by sea. The German high command recognised the difficulties of a seaborne attack while the Royal Navy controlled the English Channel and the North Sea. The primary objective of the German forces was to compel Britain to agree to a negotiated peace settlement.
The British officially recognise the battle's duration as being from 10 July until 31 October 1940, which overlaps the period of large-scale night attacks known as the Blitz, that lasted from 7 September 1940 to 11 May 1941. German historians do not follow this subdivision and regard the battle as a single campaign lasting from July 1940 to May 1941, including the Blitz.
In July 1940, the air and sea blockade began, with the Luftwaffe mainly targeting coastal-shipping convoys, as well as ports and shipping centres such as Portsmouth. On 16 July, Hitler ordered the preparation of Operation Sea Lion as a potential amphibious and airborne assault on Britain, to follow once the Luftwaffe had air superiority over the Channel. On 1 August, the Luftwaffe was directed to achieve air superiority over the RAF, with the aim of incapacitating RAF Fighter Command; 12 days later, it shifted the attacks to RAF airfields and infrastructure. As the battle progressed, the Luftwaffe also targeted factories involved in aircraft production and strategic infrastructure. Eventually, it employed terror bombing on areas of political significance and on civilians. In September, RAF Bomber Command night raids disrupted the German preparation of converted barges, and the Luftwaffe's failure to overwhelm the RAF forced Hitler to postpone and eventually cancel Operation Sea Lion. The Luftwaffe proved unable to sustain daylight raids, but their continued night-bombing operations on Britain became known as the Blitz.
Germany's failure to destroy Britain's air defences and force it out of the conflict was the first major German defeat in the Second World War.

Title: Battle of Leyte Gulf
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Leyte_Gulf
Excerpt: The Battle of Leyte Gulf (23–26 October 1944) was the largest naval battle of World War II and by some criteria the largest naval battle in history, with over 200,000 naval personnel involved.
By late 1944, the Japanese fleet had become much weaker than that of the Allied forces; it contained fewer capital ships (aircraft carriers and battleships) than the Allies had aircraft carriers in the Pacific. After the catastrophic Battle of the Philippine Sea in June 1944, senior Japanese military leaders understood that their remaining naval forces were incapable of achieving a strategic victory against the Allies. However, the Japanese general staff believed that continuing to contest Allied offensives at sea was necessary to deter an  invasion of mainland Japan and to give the Japanese navy an opportunity to use its remaining strength. As a result, the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) mobilized nearly all of its remaining major naval vessels in an attempt to repel the Allied invasion of the Philippines, but it was defeated by the U.S. Navy's Third and Seventh Fleets.
The battle consisted of four main engagements (the Battle of the Sibuyan Sea, the Battle of Surigao Strait, the Battle off Cape Engaño, and the Battle off Samar) and several lesser actions. Allied forces announced the end of organized Japanese resistance on the island of Leyte at the end of December.
It was the first battle in which Japanese aircraft carried out organized kamikaze attacks, and it was the last-ever battle between battleships. The Japanese navy suffered crippling losses and did not sail in comparable force for the remainder of the war, as most of its vessels were stranded in port for lack of fuel.

Title: Battle of Manila (1899)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Manila_(1899)
Excerpt: The Battle of Manila (Filipino: Labanan sa Maynila; Spanish: Batalla de Manila), the first and largest battle of the Philippine–American War, was fought on February 4–5, 1899, between 19,000 American soldiers and 15,000 Filipino armed militiamen. Armed conflict erupted when American troops, tasked with preventing the Filipino encampment from moving closer, fired on a nearby group. Philippine President Emilio Aguinaldo attempted to broker a ceasefire, but American General Elwell Stephen Otis rejected it, and fighting escalated the next day. It ended in an American victory, although minor skirmishes continued for several days afterward.

Title: Timeline of the New People's Army rebellion
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_the_New_People%27s_Army_rebellion
Excerpt: The following is the timeline of events of the CPP-NPA-NDF rebellion, a conflict between the government of the Philippines, the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP), the New People's Army (NPA) and the National Democratic Front (NDF).