Title: ABBA
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ABBA
Excerpt: ABBA (  AB-ə, Swedish: [ˈâbːa]) were a Swedish pop music group formed in Stockholm in 1972 by Agnetha Fältskog, Björn Ulvaeus, Benny Andersson and Anni-Frid Lyngstad. They are among the most renowned and commercially successful musical groups in history.
In 1974, ABBA won the Eurovision Song Contest for Sweden with their song "Waterloo", which was chosen as the best song in the competition's history during its 50th anniversary celebration in 2005. During their peak, ABBA comprised two married couples: Fältskog and Ulvaeus, and Lyngstad and Andersson. As their fame grew, their personal lives suffered, leading to the dissolution of both marriages. These relationship changes were reflected in the group's later music, which featured darker and more introspective lyrics.
After ABBA disbanded in December 1982, Andersson and Ulvaeus continued their success writing music for stage, musicals and films, while Fältskog and Lyngstad pursued solo careers. Ten years after the group's breakup, the compilation ABBA Gold was released and became a worldwide best-seller. In 1999, ABBA's music was adapted into Mamma Mia!, a stage musical that toured globally. As of October 2024, it remains one of the ten longest-running productions on Broadway (closed in 2015) and the West End (still running). A film of the same name, released in 2008, became the highest-grossing film in the United Kingdom that year. A sequel, Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again, was released in 2018.
ABBA are one of the best-selling music acts of all time, with sales exceeding 150 million. Their compilation album ABBA Gold is, as of April 2026, certified platinum over 128 times across more than 28 countries/territories worldwide and has been in the UK top 100 album chart for a record 1,248 weeks. The group are ranked as the third-best-selling singles artist in the United Kingdom, with a total of 11.3 million singles sold as of 3 November 2012. In May 2023, ABBA received the BRIT Billion Award, which honours artists who have surpassed one billion UK streams in their careers. They were the first group from a non-English-speaking country to achieve consistent success on the charts in English-speaking countries, including the United Kingdom, Australia, the United States, Ireland, Canada, New Zealand and South Africa. ABBA are recognised as the best-selling Swedish music act of all time and the best-selling band originating from continental Europe. The group achieved eight consecutive number-one albums in the UK and also enjoyed significant success in Latin America, recording a collection of their hit songs in Spanish.
In 2016, the group reunited and started working on a digital avatar concert tour. Newly recorded songs were announced in 2018. Voyage, their first new album in 40 years, was released on 5 November 2021, to positive critical reviews and strong sales. ABBA Voyage, a concert residency featuring ABBA as virtual avatars, opened in May 2022 at the purpose built ABBA Arena in London to universal acclaim. The seven times weekly concerts passed the 4 million attendance mark in April 2026 and are estimated to have contributed in excess of £2 billion to the UK economy. ABBA Voyage concerts, in their fourth year, continue to play to packed houses.

Title: Alice Cooper
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Cooper
Excerpt: Alice Cooper (born Vincent Damon Furnier; February 4, 1948) is an American singer and songwriter. With a career spanning over six decades, he is known for his raspy singing voice and theatrical stage shows that feature numerous props and illusions. Cooper is considered by music journalists and peers to be "The Godfather of Shock Rock". He has drawn from horror films, vaudeville, and garage rock to pioneer a macabre and theatrical brand of rock designed to shock audiences.
Originating in Phoenix, Arizona in 1964, Alice Cooper was originally a band consisting of Furnier, guitarists Glen Buxton and Michael Bruce, bassist Dennis Dunaway, and drummer Neal Smith. The band released seven studio albums from 1969 to 1973 and hit singles such as "I'm Eighteen", "School's Out", and "No More Mr. Nice Guy". Following their disbandment in 1975, Furnier legally changed his name to Alice Cooper and began a solo career with the concept album Welcome to My Nightmare (1975). His hit singles as a solo artist include "Only Women Bleed", "You and Me", and "Poison". Over the course of his career, Cooper has released 30 studio albums and sold over 50 million records worldwide. The original Alice Cooper band was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2011.
Cooper has experimented with various musical styles, mainly hard rock, glam rock, heavy metal, and glam metal, as well as new wave, art rock, and industrial rock. He helped shape the sound and look of heavy metal, and he has been described as the artist who "first introduced horror imagery to rock'n'roll, and whose stagecraft and showmanship have permanently transformed the genre". Cooper is also known for his wit offstage, with The Rolling Stone Album Guide calling him the world's most "beloved heavy metal entertainer". His philanthropic work includes his Solid Rock Foundation, which provides free music, art, and vocational programs for at-risk youth in Phoenix, Arizona.

Title: David Hasselhoff
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Hasselhoff
Excerpt: David Michael Hasselhoff (born July 17, 1952), nicknamed "the Hoff", is an American actor, singer, and television personality. He first gained recognition on the soap opera The Young and the Restless (1975–1982), playing the role of Dr. Snapper Foster. His career continued with his leading role as Michael Knight on the crime drama series Knight Rider (1982–1986) and as L.A. County Lifeguard Mitch Buchannon in the drama series Baywatch (1989–2000). He also produced Baywatch from the 1990s until 2001 when the series ended with Baywatch Hawaii.
Hasselhoff has appeared in films, including DodgeBall: A True Underdog Story (2004), The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie (2004), Click (2006), Hop (2011), and Piranha 3DD (2012). Before Samuel L. Jackson, Hasselhoff was the first actor to portray the Marvel Comics character Nick Fury in the telefilm Nick Fury: Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. (1998). In 2000, he made his Broadway debut in the musical Jekyll & Hyde. Following his debut, he starred in other musicals including Chicago and The Producers.
Hasselhoff has released a total of fifteen studio albums, which found success mostly in German-speaking parts of Europe, where he has garnered multiple gold and platinum awards, with the single "Looking for Freedom" reaching number one in Germany and Switzerland. Hasselhoff has also worked as a talent show judge on television shows such as America's Got Talent (2006–2009) and Britain's Got Talent (2011).

Title: T.I.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/T.I.
Excerpt: Clifford Joseph Harris Jr. (born September 25, 1980), known professionally as T.I. or Tip, is an American rapper and actor. Born and raised in Atlanta, Georgia, Harris is credited as a pioneer of the hip-hop subgenre trap music, along with fellow Georgia-based rappers Jeezy and Gucci Mane. He met local music executive Kawan "KP" Prather in the late 1990s, joining his company Ghet-O-Vision Entertainment — an imprint of Arista and LaFace Records — by 1999. The lukewarm critical and commercial response of his debut studio album, I'm Serious (2001), led him to part ways the label. He then signed with Atlantic Records and found mainstream success with his subsequent releases, co-founding his record label imprint, Grand Hustle Records, in 2003.
Harris gained recognition following his guest appearance on fellow Atlanta-based rapper Bone Crusher's 2003 single "Never Scared" — his first Billboard Hot 100 entry. His second album, Trap Muzik (2003), peaked at number four on the Billboard 200 chart and spawned the top 40 singles "Rubber Band Man" and "Let's Get Away" (featuring Jazze Pha). The following year, Harris guest appeared alongside Lil Wayne on Destiny's Child's hit single "Soldier", and capitalized on this with the release of his third album, Urban Legend (2004). His next three studio albums each debuted atop the Billboard 200; his fourth and fifth, King (2006) and T.I. vs. T.I.P. (2007), were led by the Billboard Hot 100-top ten singles, "What You Know" and "Big Shit Poppin' (Do It)", respectively.
Harris' sixth album, Paper Trail (2008), yielded his furthest commercial success, receiving gold certification by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in its first week. It spawned two Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles: "Whatever You Like" and "Live Your Life" (featuring Rihanna); the latter replaced the former atop the chart, and made Harris the first rapper to do so while occupying its top two positions. Following an eleven-month incarceration, his seventh album, No Mercy (2010), witnessed a critical and commercial decline, rebounded by his eighth album, Trouble Man: Heavy Is the Head (2012). Harris also guest appeared alongside Pharrell Williams on Robin Thicke's 2013 single "Blurred Lines", which peaked atop the Billboard Hot 100, and did so in 22 other countries.
The following year, his contract with Atlantic expired; he signed with Columbia Records and enlisted Williams as executive producer for his ninth studio album, Paperwork (2014). As with his previous, it reached number two on the Billboard 200 and saw positive critical reception. The following year, he worked further with album collaborator and then-upcoming hometown native Young Thug to form the short-lived hip-hop collective, Bankroll Mafia. He then signed with Jay-Z's Roc Nation in 2016 to release his political Us or Else (2016–2017) extended play series and compilation album, We Want Smoke (2017); he later signed with Epic Records in 2018 to release his long-delayed tenth album, Dime Trap, in October of that year. His eleventh album, The L.I.B.R.A. (2020) was his first to be released independently. His twelfth and final album, Kill the King, was released in 2026.
Harris, a three-time Grammy Award winner, has been described as a leading figure in hip-hop and Southern hip-hop during the 2000s. He has received 19 nominations for the award, as well as 12 Billboard Music Awards, 3 BET Awards, and 2 American Music Awards. Prominent industry artists have signed to T.I. through his Grand Hustle Records label since its formation, including Travis Scott, B.o.B, and Iggy Azalea. In his acting career, Harris has starred in the films ATL, Takers, Get Hard, Identity Thief, and in the Marvel Cinematic Universe films Ant-Man and its sequel, as well as the reality television series T.I.'s Road to Redemption, T.I. & Tiny: The Family Hustle, and The Grand Hustle. As an author, he has published two novels: Power & Beauty (2011) and Trouble & Triumph (2012). By the end of the decade, Billboard ranked him the 27th best artist of the 2000s.

Title: Paul McCartney
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_McCartney
Excerpt: Sir James Paul McCartney (born 18 June 1942) is an English musician and songwriter. He gained global fame with the Beatles, for whom he was the bassist and keyboardist, and shared primary songwriting and lead vocal duties with John Lennon. McCartney is known for his melodic approach to bass-playing, versatile tenor vocal range and musical eclecticism, exploring genres ranging from pre–rock and roll pop to classical, ballads and electronica. His songwriting partnership with Lennon was the most successful in music history.
Born in Liverpool, McCartney taught himself piano, guitar, and songwriting as a teenager, having been influenced by his father, a jazz player, and rock and roll performers such as Little Richard and Buddy Holly. He began his career when he joined Lennon's skiffle group, the Quarrymen, in 1957, which evolved into the Beatles in 1960. Sometimes called "the cute Beatle", McCartney later immersed himself in the London avant-garde scene and played a key role in incorporating experimental aesthetics into the Beatles' studio productions. Starting with the 1967 album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, he gradually became the band's de facto leader, providing creative impetus for most of their music and film projects. Many of his Beatles songs, including "And I Love Her", "Yesterday", "Eleanor Rigby" and "Blackbird", rank among the most covered songs in history. Although primarily a bassist with the Beatles, he has played a number of other instruments, including keyboards, guitars and drums, on various songs with all of his associated bands and projects.
After the Beatles disbanded, he debuted as a solo artist with the 1970 album McCartney and went on to form the band Wings with his first wife, Linda, and Denny Laine. Under McCartney's leadership, Wings became one of the most successful bands of the 1970s. He wrote or co-wrote their US or UK number-one hits, such as "My Love", "Band on the Run", "Listen to What the Man Said", "Silly Love Songs" and "Mull of Kintyre". He resumed his solo career in 1980 and has been touring as a solo artist since 1989. Apart from Wings, his UK or US number-one hits include "Uncle Albert/Admiral Halsey" (with Linda), "Coming Up", "Pipes of Peace", "Ebony and Ivory" (with Stevie Wonder), and "Say Say Say" (with Michael Jackson). McCartney has been involved in projects to promote international charities related to animal rights, seal hunting, land mines, vegetarianism, poverty, and music education.
McCartney is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with estimated sales of 100 million records. He is one of only three recording artists, along with Phil Collins and Jackson, who have sold over 100 million records both as solo artists and separately as principal members of a band. He has written or co-written a record 32 songs that have topped the Billboard Hot 100 and, as of 2009, he had sales of 25.5 million RIAA certified units in the US. McCartney's honours include two inductions into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (as a member of the Beatles in 1988 and as a solo artist in 1999), an Academy Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, 19 Grammy Awards, an appointment as a Member of the Order of the British Empire in 1965 and an appointment as Knight Bachelor in 1997 for services to music. As of 2024, he is one of the wealthiest musicians in the world, with an estimated fortune of £1 billion.