Title: Clamp (manga artists)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clamp_(manga_artists)
Excerpt: Clamp (stylized in all caps) is an all-female Japanese manga artist group, consisting of leader and writer Nanase Ohkawa (born in Osaka), and three artists whose roles shift for each series: Mokona, Tsubaki Nekoi, and Satsuki Igarashi (all born in Kyoto).
Clamp was first formed in the mid-1980s as a twelve-member group creating dōjinshi (self-published fan works), and began creating original manga in 1987. By the time the group made its mainstream publishing debut with RG Veda in 1989, it was reduced to seven members; three more members left in 1993, leaving the four current members of the group.
Notable works by Clamp include X (1992), Magic Knight Rayearth (1993), Cardcaptor Sakura (1996) and its sequel Cardcaptor Sakura: Clear Card (2016), Chobits (2000), and xxxHolic and Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle (both 2003). Various series by the group cross-reference each other, and characters reappear in multiple works by the group. Clamp are noted as among the most critically and commercially acclaimed manga artists in Japan, and as of 2007, have sold nearly 100 million books worldwide.

Title: Yasunari Kawabata
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yasunari_Kawabata
Excerpt: Yasunari Kawabata (川端 康成, Kawabata Yasunari; Japanese pronunciation: [ka.wa.ba.ta (|) ja.sɯꜜ.na.ɾʲi], 11 June 1899 – 16 April 1972) was a Japanese novelist and short story writer whose spare, lyrical, subtly-shaded prose works won him the 1968 Nobel Prize in Literature, the first Japanese author to receive the award. His works have enjoyed broad international appeal and are still widely read.

Title: Keigo Higashino
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keigo_Higashino
Excerpt: Keigo Higashino (Japanese: 東野 圭吾, Hepburn: Higashino Keigo; February 4, 1958 – July 23, 2026) was a Japanese author chiefly known for his mystery novels. He served as the 13th President of Mystery Writers of Japan from 2009 to 2013. Higashino won major Japanese awards for his books, almost twenty of which have been turned into films and television series.

Title: Nier: Automata
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nier:_Automata
Excerpt: Nier: Automata is a 2017 action role-playing game developed by PlatinumGames and published by Square Enix. It is the sequel to Nier (2010). Nier: Automata was originally released for the PlayStation 4 and Windows via Steam. It was ported to Xbox One in June 2018, and Nintendo Switch in October 2022.
Nier: Automata is set during a proxy war between alien-created Machines and human-crafted androids, focusing on the actions of combat android 2B, scanner android 9S, and rogue prototype A2. The story requires multiple playthroughs, with each playthrough revealing new story elements. The gameplay combines role-playing elements with action-based hack-and-slash combat. It also includes gameplay from other video game genres, with elements varying from shoot 'em up to text adventure.
Production began in 2014, with series creator Yoko Taro, producer Yosuke Saito, and lead composer Keiichi Okabe reprising their roles in Nier. Akihiko Yoshida, known for his work in the Final Fantasy series, led character design. The goal was to make a sequel that would be faithful to Nier while improving the combat system. Because the project was new to PlatinumGames, its staff faced multiple challenges when developing the gameplay and open-world environment. The story, written by Yoko, explores themes of finding value in life and the reasons people kill. Automata was localized by 8-4, translators of Nier.
Nier: Automata was announced at E3 2015; it received stage plays and novels expanding its narrative, and both downloadable content (DLC) and crossovers with other games. Critics praised the game's story, themes, gameplay, music and characters but criticized for some visual and technical problems. The PC release drew a mixed response due to technical problems that were not addressed until 2021. Sales surpassed expectations; as of February 2026, Nier: Automata had sold over ten million copies worldwide.

Title: Deaths in 2026
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deaths_in_2026
Excerpt: The following notable deaths occurred in 2026. Names are reported under the date of death, in alphabetical order. A typical entry reports information in the following sequence:

Name, age, country of citizenship at birth, subsequent nationality (if applicable), what subject was noted for, cause of death (if known), and a reference.