Title: The Slipper and the Rose
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Slipper_and_the_Rose
Excerpt: The Slipper and the Rose: The Story of Cinderella is a 1976 British musical retelling the classic fairy tale of Cinderella. The film was chosen as the Royal Command Performance motion picture selection for 1976.
Directed by Bryan Forbes, the film stars Gemma Craven as the heroine, Richard Chamberlain as the prince, and features a supporting cast led by Michael Hordern, Kenneth More, Edith Evans, and Annette Crosbie. The film's Academy Award-nominated songs were written by the Sherman Brothers – Richard M. Sherman and Robert B. Sherman – who also shared scripting duties with Forbes.

Title: Walt Disney Animation Studios
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walt_Disney_Animation_Studios
Excerpt: Walt Disney Animation Studios (WDAS), sometimes shortened to Disney Animation, is an American animation studio which produces animated feature films and short films for the Walt Disney Company. The studio's current production logo features a scene from its first synchronized sound cartoon, Steamboat Willie (1928). Founded on October 16, 1923, by brothers Walt and Roy O. Disney after the closure of Laugh-O-Gram Studio, it is the longest-running animation studio in the world. It is currently organized as a division of Walt Disney Studios and is headquartered at the Roy E. Disney Animation Building at the Walt Disney Studios lot in Burbank, California. Since its foundation, the studio has produced 64 feature films, from Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937)—which is also the first hand-drawn animated feature film—to Zootopia 2 (2025), and hundreds of short films.
Founded as Disney Brothers Cartoon Studio (DBCS) in 1923, renamed Walt Disney Studio (WDS) in 1926 and incorporated as Walt Disney Productions (WDP) in 1929, the studio was dedicated to producing short films until it entered feature production in 1934, resulting in Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, one of the first full-length animated feature films and the first U.S.-based one. In 1986, during a large corporate restructuring, Walt Disney Productions, which had grown from a single animation studio into an international media conglomerate, was renamed the Walt Disney Company and the animation studio became Walt Disney Feature Animation (WDFA) in order to differentiate it from the company's other divisions. Its current name was adopted in 2007, one year after Pixar Animation Studios was acquired by Disney.
For many people, Disney Animation is synonymous with animation, for "in no other medium has a single company's practices been able to dominate aesthetic norms" to such an overwhelming extent. The studio was recognized as the premier American animation studio for much of its existence and was "for many decades the undisputed world leader in animated features"; it developed many of the techniques, concepts and principles that became standard practices of traditional animation. The studio also pioneered the art of storyboarding, which is now a standard technique used in both animated and live-action filmmaking, as well as television shows and video games. The studio's catalog of animated features is among Disney's most notable assets, with the stars of its animated shorts—Mickey Mouse, Minnie Mouse, Donald Duck, Daisy Duck, Goofy, and Pluto—becoming recognizable figures in popular culture and mascots for the Walt Disney Company as a whole.
Four of the studio's films—Frozen (2013), Frozen 2 (2019), Moana 2 (2024), and Zootopia 2 (2025)—are all among the 50 highest-grossing films of all time, with the latter one becoming the second-highest-grossing animated feature film of all time and the highest-grossing American-produced animated feature film. By 2013, the studio stated they had no hand-drawn animated feature films in development as a result of their computer animated films performing better at the box office, and had laid off a large portion of their hand-drawn animators. However, the studio stated in 2019 and 2023 that they are open to proposals from filmmakers for future hand-drawn feature projects. In addition, in April 2022, Eric Goldberg, a hand-drawn animator who has been working with the studio since 1992, confirmed plans within the Disney studio to return to hand-drawn animation.

Title: Beauty and the Beast (2017 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beauty_and_the_Beast_(2017_film)
Excerpt: Beauty and the Beast is a 2017 American musical romantic fantasy film. It is a live-action/CGI remake of the 1991 Disney animated film, itself an adaptation of the fairy tale. Produced by Walt Disney Pictures and Mandeville Films, the film was directed by Bill Condon and written by Stephen Chbosky and Evan Spiliotopoulos. Emma Watson and Dan Stevens respectively star as Belle and the Beast, with Luke Evans, Kevin Kline, Josh Gad, Ewan McGregor, Stanley Tucci, Audra McDonald, Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Ian McKellen, and Emma Thompson in supporting roles.
The film was first announced in April 2014, with Condon attached to direct. The cast members signed on between January and April 2015, and filming took place primarily at Shepperton Studios in England from May to August of that year. The estimated production budget was around $255 million.
Beauty and the Beast had its world premiere at Spencer House in London on February 23, 2017, followed by its American premiere at the El Capitan Theatre in Hollywood on March 2. It was released theatrically in the United States on March 17. The film received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised its cast, songs, and visual detail. It grossed $1.27 billion, becoming the second-highest-grossing film of 2017 and the tenth-highest-grossing film of all time. Amongst Disney's live-action adaptation remakes, it is the second-highest-grossing film to date. The film received several accolades, including nominations for Best Production Design and Best Costume Design at the 90th Academy Awards.