Title: Based on a True Story (The Starting Line album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Based_on_a_True_Story_(The_Starting_Line_album)
Excerpt: Based on a True Story is the second studio album by American pop punk band the Starting Line. The group's label Drive-Thru Records had a distribution deal which allowed MCA Records to acquire their bands. After MCA Records was absorbed into Geffen Records in mid-2003, the band spent most of 2004 writing and demoing songs for their next album. Following pre-production in July 2004, the band began recording for Based on a True Story, finishing in September. The album was recorded at various studios in New York state and California. Separate sessions were produced by Tim O'Heir, Howard Benson and Eric Rachel.
Prior to the album's release, "Bedroom Talk" was issued as a single in April 2005, and the band went on tour debuting a handful of songs from the album. Based on a True Story was released through Drive-Thru and Geffen Records on May 10. Peaking at number 18 on the Billboard 200, the album received mixed to positive reviews. Following its release, the band went on the Warped Tour throughout the summer. While on the tour, a music video was released for "Bedroom Talk". Soon after, Geffen de-prioritized the album, which resulted in the band leaving the label in December. Further tours in the UK and the US followed.

Title: Based on a True Story (Sick of It All album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Based_on_a_True_Story_(Sick_of_It_All_album)
Excerpt: Based on a True Story is the ninth studio album by New York hardcore band Sick of It All. It was released on April 20, 2010, on the band's new label Century Media Records (though Abacus, their previous label, was a subsidiary of Century Media). It was the band's first album in four years, following the release of Death to Tyrants in 2006, the longest gap between albums in Sick of It All's career. Based on a True Story was also available as an extremely limited German import-only version that was packaged with a DVD titled New York Vs. London.
The DVD, which was recorded, edited, and produced by Universal Warning Records, features a 5-camera shoot of 3 songs from a sold-out show in New York City from January 2008 – and a 3-camera shoot from a sold-out 2008 show in London. There is also a 15-minute European tour documentary that glues the program together.

Title: Danger Days: The True Lives of the Fabulous Killjoys
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Danger_Days:_The_True_Lives_of_the_Fabulous_Killjoys
Excerpt: Danger Days: The True Lives of the Fabulous Killjoys (often referred to as simply Danger Days) is the fourth studio album by the American rock band My Chemical Romance, released on November 22, 2010, by Reprise Records. It was produced by the band alongside Rob Cavallo and recorded in Calabasas, California. The primary musical inspiration for the album came from contemporary rock, psychedelic rock, and proto-punk bands of the sixties and seventies. It was the final album released by the band before their six-year disbandment from 2013 to 2019.
Like the band's previous album The Black Parade, Danger Days is a rock opera. The album's storyline takes place in post-apocalyptic California in 2019, where a group of rebellious outsiders known as Killjoys battle against an evil corporation. In 2013, frontman Gerard Way published a comic miniseries that continued the story described in the album.
To promote the album, the band embarked on a world tour, titled The World Contamination Tour. It lasted from October 2010 to February 2012, and included concerts in Europe, North America, Asia and Oceania; the band also co-headlined the 10th Annual Honda Civic Tour with Blink-182. Danger Days received generally positive reviews from critics and sold 112,000 copies in its first week, debuting at the top of the Billboard Rock Albums and Alternative Albums charts, and at number 8 on the Billboard 200. It also appeared in the music charts in several other countries. By February 2011, Danger Days had sold over a million copies worldwide. In May 2026, a deluxe edition reissue of the album was announced, featuring most of the original tracks remastered, and nine additional bonus tracks. It was released on July 10, 2026.

Title: The Incredible True Story
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Incredible_True_Story
Excerpt: The Incredible True Story is the second studio album by American rapper Logic. It was released on November 13, 2015, by Visionary Music Group and Def Jam Recordings. The album features production by Logic, executive producer 6ix, Stefan Ponce, Sir Dylan, Syk Sense, Oz, and DJ Dahi. The album also features guest appearances from Big Lenbo, Lucy Rose, Dria, and Jesse Boykins III.
The Incredible True Story was supported by three singles: "Young Jesus", "Like Woah", and "Fade Away". The album received positive reviews from music critics and was a commercial success. It debuted at number three on the US Billboard 200, earning 135,000 album-equivalent units in its first week. It also reached number one on the US Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. The album was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in June 2021.

Title: Petal (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Petal_(album)
Excerpt: Petal (stylized in all lowercase) is the eighth studio album by American singer and songwriter Ariana Grande. It was released on July 31, 2026, through the label Republic Records, and her own imprint, Babydoll Music. Grande and Ilya Salmanzadeh wrote and executive-produced the album, with Max Martin contributing production on three tracks.
A pop and R&B album characterized by atmospheric production, synthesizers, drum machines, and an electronic soundscape, Petal explores themes of romance, self-worth, and fame. Titled after and based on the metaphor "petal in the pavement", the album revolves around finding hope and resilience from emotional and mental turmoil. Its songs reflect on failed romances with a negative view of the ex-partners, discuss falling in love again after painful breakups, and critique the negative sides of fame such as intense, obsessive scrutiny. 
Two singles have been released from Petal. "Hate That I Made You Love Me" was released on May 29 as the lead single and reached number one on the US Billboard Hot 100 and UK Singles Chart. The title track, "Petal", which Grande debuted during the Eternal Sunshine Tour on July 28, accompanied the album on July 31. The album polarized critics, with some complimenting the subdued music and vocals while others felt that the same factors undermined it. Petal topped the charts in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Scotland, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.