Title: Robert Graves
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Graves
Excerpt: Robert Ranke Graves (24 July 1895 – 7 December 1985), whose second name is sometimes given as von Ranke,  was an English poet, novelist and critic. His father was Alfred Perceval Graves, a celebrated Irish poet and figure in the Gaelic revival; they were both Celticists and students of Irish mythology.
Robert Graves produced more than 140 works in his lifetime. His poems, his translations, and innovative analysis of the Greek myths, his memoir of his early life—including his role in the First World War, Good-Bye to All That (1929), and his speculative study of poetic inspiration in The White Goddess (1948), have never been out of print. He was also a renowned short story writer, with work such as "The Tenement" still read.
Graves earned his living from writing, particularly popular historical novels such as I, Claudius (1934), Count Belisarius (1938), and King Jesus (1946). He was also a prominent translator of Classical Latin and Ancient Greek texts; his versions of The Twelve Caesars and The Golden Ass remain popular for their clarity and entertaining style. Graves was awarded the 1934 James Tait Black Memorial Prize for both I, Claudius and Claudius the God.
Graves's eldest half-brother Philip achieved success as a journalist, and his younger brother Charles was a writer and journalist.

Title: Graves' disease
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graves%27_disease
Excerpt: Graves' disease, also known as toxic diffuse goiter, Basedow's disease or Flajani-Graves-Basedow disease, is an autoimmune disease that affects the thyroid. It frequently results in, and is the most common cause of, hyperthyroidism. It also often results in an enlarged thyroid. Signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism may include irritability, muscle weakness, sleeping problems, a fast heartbeat, poor tolerance of heat, diarrhea and unintentional weight loss. Other symptoms may include thickening of the skin on the shins, known as pretibial myxedema, and eye bulging, a condition caused by Graves' ophthalmopathy. About 25 to 30% of people with the condition develop eye problems.
The exact cause of the disease is unclear, but symptoms are a result of antibodies binding to receptors on the thyroid, causing over-expression of thyroid hormone. Persons are more likely to be affected if they have a family member with the disease. If one monozygotic twin (identical twin) is affected, a 30% chance exists that the other twin will also have the disease. The onset of disease may be triggered by physical or emotional stress, infection, or by giving birth. Those with other autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis are more likely to be affected. Smoking increases the risk of disease and may worsen eye problems. The disorder results from an antibody, called thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin (TSI), that has a similar effect to thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). These TSI antibodies cause the thyroid gland to produce excess thyroid hormones. The diagnosis may be suspected based on symptoms and confirmed with blood tests and radioiodine uptake. Typically, blood tests show a raised T3 and T4, low TSH, increased radioiodine uptake in all areas of the thyroid, and TSI antibodies.
The three treatment options are radioiodine therapy, medications, and thyroid surgery. Radioiodine therapy involves taking iodine-131 by mouth, which is then concentrated in the thyroid and destroys it over weeks to months. The resulting hypothyroidism is treated with synthetic thyroid hormones. Medications such as beta blockers may control some of the symptoms, and antithyroid medications such as methimazole may temporarily help people, while other treatments are having an effect. Surgery to remove the thyroid is another option. Eye problems may require additional treatments.
Graves' disease develops in about 0.5% of males and 3.0% of females. It occurs about 7.5 times more often in women than in men. Often, it starts between the ages of 40 and 60, but can begin at any age. It is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism in the United States (about 50 to 80% of cases). The condition is named after Irish surgeon Robert Graves, who described it in 1835. Many prior descriptions also exist.

Title: Die Another Day
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Die_Another_Day
Excerpt: Die Another Day is a 2002 spy film and the twentieth film in the James Bond series produced by Eon Productions. It was directed by Lee Tamahori, produced by Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli, and written by Neal Purvis and Robert Wade. The fourth and final film starring Pierce Brosnan as the fictional MI6 agent James Bond, it was also the last with Samantha Bond as Miss Moneypenny. Halle Berry co-stars as Bond girl and NSA agent Jinx. In the film, Bond attempts to locate a traitor in British intelligence who betrayed him and a British billionaire who is later revealed to be connected to a North Korean operative who Bond seemingly killed. It is an original story, although it takes influence from Bond creator Ian Fleming's novels Moonraker (1955) and The Man with the Golden Gun (1965), as well as Kingsley Amis's novel, Colonel Sun. 
Die Another Day was released on 20 November 2002 internationally by 20th Century Fox and in the United States two days later by MGM Distribution Co. under the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer label. The film also marked the James Bond franchise's 40th anniversary, and includes references to each of the preceding films. It received mixed reviews from critics, who praised Tamahori's direction, but criticised the reliance on CGI, product placement, plot and villain. Nevertheless, the film was a box-office success, grossing $432 million worldwide, becoming the sixth-highest-grossing film of 2002.
The next film in the series, Casino Royale, was released in November 2006, which also served as a reboot of the franchise with Daniel Craig replacing Brosnan as Bond.

Title: Did Six Million Really Die?
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Did_Six_Million_Really_Die%3F
Excerpt: Did Six Million Really Die? The Truth at Last is a pamphlet that promotes Holocaust denial and other neo-Nazi sentiments, allegedly written by British National Front (NF) member Richard Verrall under the pseudonym Richard E. Harwood and published in 1974 by neo-Nazi propagandist Ernst Zündel, another Holocaust denier and pamphleteer. The NF denied that Verrall was the author in a 1978 edition of World in Action.
In 1983, Holocaust survivor Sabina Citron began a private prosecution under s.181 of the Canadian Criminal Code against Zündel, charging him with spreading false news. She was subsequently joined in her proceedings against Zündel by the government of Ontario. The Supreme Court concluded in the 1988 trial that "The pamphlet Did Six Million Really Die? does not fit with received views of reality because it is not part of reality."

Title: Robert Perceval Graves
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Perceval_Graves
Excerpt: Robert Perceval Graves (9 March 1810 in Dublin – 5 October 1893 in Dublin) was an Irish biographer and clergyman, brother of both mathematician and bishop Charles Graves and jurist and mathematician John T. Graves. He was a brother-in-law of the German historian Leopold von Ranke who was married to his sister Helena Clarissa, and an uncle of the poet Alfred Perceval Graves. Graves is best known for his three-volume biography of W. R. Hamilton.