Title: Estadio Azteca
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Estadio_Azteca
Excerpt: Estadio Azteca (Latin American Spanish: [esˈtaðjo asˈteka]), officially known as Estadio Banorte for sponsorship reasons, is a football stadium located in Coyoacán, Mexico City. At an elevation of 2,241 meters (7,352 ft) above sea level it is the official home of Club América of Liga MX and the Mexico national team. With a capacity of 87,523, it is the largest stadium in Latin America and the eighth-largest association football stadium in the world.
One of the best known football stadiums in the world, often called the "Temple of Football" or the "Cathedral of Football", it was the first to host two FIFA World Cup finals; Brazil defeated Italy 4–1 in 1970 and Argentina beat West Germany 3–2 in 1986. It also hosted the 1986 quarter-final match between Argentina and England in which Diego Maradona scored both the "Hand of God goal" and the "Goal of the Century". 

Both Pelé's (1970) and Diego Maradona's (1986) national teams won the FIFA World Cup in Estadio Azteca. It also hosted the "Game of the Century", when Italy defeated West Germany 4–3 in extra time in one of the 1970 semifinal matches. The stadium was the principal venue for the football tournament of the 1968 Summer Olympics and the 1971 Women's World Cup. It also hosted games during the 2026 FIFA World Cup, including the opening game where South Africa played against Mexico, making it the only stadium to host three editions of the FIFA World Cup. Additionally, the National Football League (NFL) of the United States features one game of American football at the stadium per season as a part of its International Series.

Title: Vasil Levski National Stadium
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vasil_Levski_National_Stadium
Excerpt: Vasil Levski National Stadium (Bulgarian: Национален стадион "Васил Левски"), named after Bulgarian national hero and revolutionary Vasil Levski (1837–1873), is the country's second largest stadium. The stadium has 43,230 seats and is located in the centre of Sofia, on the territory of the city's oldest and most famous park - the Borisova gradina.
The Bulgaria national football team's home matches and the Bulgarian Cup finals are held at the venue, as well as athletics competitions. It was used as the home venue for Levski Sofia's Champions League games, and is often used for important derbies between the big clubs from Sofia, instead of their own home stadiums.

Title: Snapdragon Stadium
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snapdragon_Stadium
Excerpt: Snapdragon Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in San Diego, California, located on the campus of San Diego State University (SDSU). It is the home of the San Diego State Aztecs football team of the Pac-12 Conference, San Diego FC of Major League Soccer (MLS), and San Diego Wave FC of the National Women's Soccer League (NWSL). 
Known during its planning and early construction phases as Aztec Stadium, ground was broken on August 17, 2020, and the stadium opened on August 19, 2022. It is located at SDSU Mission Valley, a 166-acre (67 ha) noncontiguous expansion parcel west of the main campus. The stadium is accessible from the main campus via the San Diego Trolley at SDSU Transit Center.
The venue was built adjacent to the demolished San Diego Stadium, which had been the home of the school's football program since the stadium opened in 1967 until it was demolished during 2020 and 2021.

Title: Highmark Stadium
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Highmark_Stadium
Excerpt: Highmark Stadium  is an American football stadium located in Orchard Park, New York, a suburb of Buffalo. It opened in 2026, serving as the home field of the Buffalo Bills of the National Football League (NFL). 
The stadium was built adjacent to Erie Community College's south campus across the street from where Ralph Wilson Stadium stood. The stadium was designed by Populous. The stadium has a seating capacity of 60,108, the smallest among NFL venues. However, the 63,000 total capacity (counting standing room-only possibilities) can reach 66,000 depending on the event. The new venue has a partial roof so that 65% of seats would be protected from the elements; the playing field is uncovered as Buffalo's reputation for cold, snowy weather often makes for compelling television and has long formed a part of the team's and city's identity.
The stadium cost $1.7 billion. Under an agreement with the state of New York, taxpayers paid $850 million of the construction cost (with $600 million coming from New York State and $250 million coming from Erie County). With the State of New York paying for all maintenance and repair costs, it is the largest taxpayer contribution ever for an NFL facility.
Groundbreaking began in June 2023, and the stadium opened on June 23, 2026. The Bills announced an extension to its existing stadium naming rights deal with Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield.

Title: Martin Stadium (Northwestern University)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Stadium_(Northwestern_University)
Excerpt: Lanny and Sharon Martin Stadium (currently known as Northwestern Medicine Field at Martin Stadium for sponsorship reasons) is an outdoor sports and recreation facility on the campus of Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. It is the home stadium of the Northwestern Wildcats soccer and lacrosse teams, as well as the current temporary home stadium of the school's football team during the construction of its new permanent stadium. The venue was enlarged in mid-2024 to accommodate the interim tenancy of the football program. In professional sports, the stadium has served as home venue for the Chicago Tempest of Women's Elite Rugby, and serves as home for the Chicago Stars FC of the National Women's Soccer League for the 2026 season.
The venue is located along the shore of Lake Michigan on the northeast end of the campus, adjacent to several other university athletic facilities and the Kellogg Global Hub academic building. It is a component of the university's Lakefront Athletics and Recreation Complex, which also features Lakeside Field (a field hockey venue), Norris Aquatics Center, Henry Crown Sports Pavilion, Combe Tennis Center, Ryan Fieldhouse (indoor football practice facility), Walter Athletics Center, and the currently disused Hutcheson Field outdoor football practice field.