Title: Chloroplast
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chloroplast
Excerpt: A chloroplast ( KLOR-ə-plast, -⁠plahst) is a type of organelle known as a plastid that conducts photosynthesis mostly in plant and algal cells. Chloroplasts have a high concentration of chlorophyll pigments which capture the energy from sunlight, convert it to chemical energy and decomposing water to release oxygen. The chemical energy created is then used to make sugar and other organic molecules from carbon dioxide in the Calvin cycle. Chloroplasts carry out a number of other functions, including fatty acid synthesis, amino acid synthesis, and immune response in plants. The number of chloroplasts per cell varies from one, in some unicellular algae, up to 100 in plants like Arabidopsis and wheat.
Chloroplasts are highly dynamic - they circulate and are moved around within cells. Their behavior is strongly influenced by environmental factors, such as light color and intensity. Chloroplasts cannot be made anew by the plant cell and must be inherited by each daughter cell during cell division, which is thought to be inherited from their ancestor—an ancient photosynthetic cyanobacterium that was engulfed by an early eukaryotic cell. 
Because of their endosymbiotic origins, chloroplasts, like mitochondria, contain their own DNA separate from the cell nucleus. With one exception (the amoeboid Paulinella chromatophora), all chloroplasts can be traced back to a single endosymbiotic event. Despite this, chloroplasts can be found in extremely diverse organisms that are not directly related to each other—a consequence of many secondary and even tertiary endosymbiotic events.

Title: Ribosome
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ribosome
Excerpt: A ribosome () is a ribonucleoprotein particle found in all cells that synthesizes proteins by translating genetic information encoded in messenger RNA (mRNA). During translation, the ribosome decodes successive codons in an mRNA molecule and, with the aid of transfer RNA (tRNA), links amino acids into a polypeptide chain. Each ribosome comprises a small and a large subunit, each composed of one or more ribosomal RNA (rRNA) molecules and many ribosomal proteins.
Ribosomes differ in size, composition and organization among bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes, but they share a core structure that reflects a common evolutionary origin. Distinct ribosomes are also found in eukaryotic mitochondria and, in plants and algae, chloroplasts. Ribosomes are assembled through ribosome biogenesis, which involves rRNA synthesis and processing together with the assembly of ribosomal proteins into functional subunits.
First observed by George Emil Palade in 1955, ribosomes have been the subject of extensive structural and functional research. Their discovery was recognized by the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1974, while determination of their atomic structure and mechanism through X-ray crystallography and cryo-electron microscopy was recognized by the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2009.

Title: Ribosomal RNA
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ribosomal_RNA
Excerpt: Ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) is a type of non-coding RNA which is the primary component of ribosomes, essential to all cells. rRNA is a ribozyme which carries out protein synthesis in ribosomes. Ribosomal RNA is transcribed from ribosomal DNA (rDNA) and then bound to ribosomal proteins to form small and large ribosome subunits. rRNA is the physical and mechanical factor of the ribosome that forces transfer RNA (tRNA) and messenger RNA (mRNA) to process and translate the latter into proteins. Ribosomal RNA is the predominant form of RNA found in most cells; it makes up about 80% of cellular RNA despite never being translated into proteins itself. Ribosomes are composed of approximately 60% rRNA and 40% ribosomal proteins, though this ratio differs between prokaryotes and eukaryotes.

Title: Gene
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene
Excerpt: In biology, the word gene has two meanings. The Mendelian gene is a basic unit of heredity. The molecular gene is a sequence of nucleotides in DNA that is transcribed to produce RNA. There are two types of molecular genes: protein-coding genes and non-coding genes. During gene expression (the synthesis of RNA or protein from a gene), DNA is first copied into RNA. RNA can be directly functional or be the intermediate template for the synthesis of a protein.
Genes and their regulatory sequences are mainly responsible for determining the physical traits, or the phenotype of an organism. The genotype is the total amount of DNA in an organism including genes, other functional elements, and non-functional DNA. 
A gene can acquire mutations in its sequence, leading to different variants, known as alleles, in the population. These alleles encode slightly different versions of a gene, which may be expressed as different phenotypic traits. 
Populations evolve when the frequencies of alleles shift due mostly to natural selection and genetic drift. Some of these alleles are located in genes.

Title: EIF2
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EIF2
Excerpt: Eukaryotic Initiation Factor 2 (eIF2) is a eukaryotic initiation factor. It is required for most forms of eukaryotic translation initiation. eIF2 mediates the binding of tRNAiMet to the ribosome in a GTP-dependent manner. eIF2 is a heterotrimer consisting of an alpha (also called subunit 1, EIF2S1), a beta (subunit 2, EIF2S2), and a gamma (subunit 3, EIF2S3) subunit.
Once the initiation phase has completed, eIF2 is released from the ribosome bound to GDP as an inactive binary complex. To participate in another round of translation initiation, this GDP must be exchanged for GTP.