Title: Yakuza
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuza
Excerpt: Yakuza (Japanese: ヤクザ; IPA: [jaꜜkɯ(d)za]; English: ), also known as gokudō (極道; "the extreme path", IPA: [gokɯꜜdoː]), or simply the Japanese mafia, are members of transnational organized crime syndicates originating in Japan. The Japanese police and media (by request of the police) call them bōryokudan (暴力団; "violent groups", IPA: [boːɾʲokɯꜜdaɴ]), while the yakuza call themselves ninkyō dantai (任侠団体; "chivalrous organizations", IPA: [ɲiŋʲkʲoː dantai]). The English equivalent for the term yakuza is gangster, meaning an individual involved in a Mafia-like criminal organization, but is generally used in English-speaking countries to refer to the criminal organization as a whole.
The yakuza are known for their strict codes of conduct, their organized fiefdom nature, and several unconventional ritual practices such as yubitsume, the amputation of the left little finger. Members are often portrayed with heavily tattooed bodies and wearing a fundoshi, sometimes with a kimono or, in more recent years, a Western-style "sharp" suit covering them.
At their height, the yakuza maintained a large presence in the Japanese media, and they also operated internationally. In 1963, the number of yakuza members and quasi-members reached a peak of 184,100. However, this number has drastically dropped, a decline attributed to changing market opportunities and several legal and social developments in Japan that discourage the growth of yakuza membership. In 1991, there were 63,800 members and 27,200 quasi-members, but by 2025, only 9,400 members and 8,200 quasi-members. The yakuza are aging because young people no longer readily join, and the average age of members at the end of 2022 was 54 years. Of that, only 5% were in their 20s, while 13% in their 30s, 26% in their 40s, 31% in their 50s, 13% in their 60s, and 12% in their 70s or older. More than half of the members were at least 50 years or older.
The yakuza still regularly engage in an array of criminal activities, and many Japanese citizens remain fearful of the threat these individuals pose to their safety. There remains no strict prohibition on yakuza membership in Japan today, although many pieces of legislation have been passed by the Japanese government aimed at impeding revenue and increasing liability for criminal activities.

Title: Yakuza 2
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuza_2
Excerpt: Yakuza 2 is a 2006 action-adventure game developed and published by Sega for the PlayStation 2. The second installment of the Yakuza series and the sequel to Yakuza, it was released on December 7, 2006,  in Japan and in September 2008 in North America and Europe. 
The game focuses on the former yakuza Kazuma Kiryu who receives a request for help from his former group, the Tojo Clan yakuza of eastern Japan, to stabilize relationships with the Omi Alliance group of western Japan. Across Kiryu's journey, he learns of a Korean mafia group linked with both the Omi and his own past, and becomes the rival of the Omi's "Dragon of Kansai", Ryuji Goda.
Yakuza 2 introduced several new gameplay features. Sega wished to improve the fighting engine based on fan input to provide a more rich experience. The story was aimed to feature a deep adult love story, something not seen in the previous game. Additionally, for the western versions the original Japanese audio was kept in contrast to the previous game which contained English audio.
Critical reception to Yakuza 2 was positive, with reviewers praising the presentation and fighting system. Yakuza 2 was followed up by a spinoff, Yakuza Kenzan, in 2008, and then by a direct sequel, Yakuza 3, in 2009. A remake of the game titled Yakuza Kiwami 2 was released in 2017 for the PlayStation 4, and later ported to Windows and Xbox One.

Title: Yakuza (franchise)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuza_(franchise)
Excerpt: Yakuza, also known as Like a Dragon (Japanese: 龍が如く, Hepburn: Ryū ga Gotoku), is a video game series and media franchise created by Toshihiro Nagoshi for Sega. It incorporates elements of the action-adventure, beat 'em up, and role-playing genres.
Each installment is typically a crime drama, with plot lines inspired by yakuza films and pre-millennial Japanese crime dramas. The most frequently featured protagonist is Kazuma Kiryu, a reformed yakuza associated with the Kanto-based Tojo Clan. While Kiryu often finds himself working with the leaders of the Tojo Clan to thwart conspiracies aimed against them, the primary theme of the series is his desire to leave the yakuza for good and start over by raising orphans and trying to assimilate into civilian life. The gameplay of Yakuza / Like a Dragon has the player controlling Kiryu (or another character, depending on the title) in an open world where he can fight random groups of punks and gangsters, take on side missions and activities to earn experience and money, learn new moves from non-player characters (NPCs), eat and drink at various restaurants, visit hostess and cabaret clubs, craft items, and engage in a variety of mini games such as golfing, bowling, batting cages, video arcades, karaoke, and gambling games including poker, blackjack, Cee-lo, and Koi-Koi. The series is well known for the contrast between the dramatic main storyline and the humorous, over the top side content.
The franchise has become a commercial and critical success, and as of 2024, Sega has reported that the video game series has sold a combined total of 27.7 million units in physical and digital sales since its debut in 2005. Strong sales of the games in its original Japanese market has led to the franchise's expansion to other media, including film adaptations and a television series.

Title: Yakuza: Like a Dragon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuza:_Like_a_Dragon
Excerpt: Yakuza: Like a Dragon is a 2020 role-playing video game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega for the PlayStation 4. The eighth mainline installment in the Yakuza series and the first to be developed as a turn-based RPG, it was released in Japan and Asia on January 16, 2020. The western release of the game for the PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on November 10, 2020 included new costumes, the returning of English audio track for the first time since the first game, and some previously paid DLC. This version was then released in Japan and Asia under the subtitle International on February 25, 2021 for Windows and Xbox platforms. The game was released worldwide for the PlayStation 5 on March 2, 2021, and a version for Amazon Luna launched on December 10, 2021.
In contrast to previous Yakuza games that focused on the life of Kazuma Kiryu, a man trying to lead a normal life after leaving the yakuza lifestyle, Like a Dragon instead introduces a new protagonist named Ichiban Kasuga. After being imprisoned for 18 years only to then be betrayed by his former boss, Kasuga goes on a personal quest to become a "hero" and uncover the reason for his betrayal alongside his companions. Yakuza: Like a Dragon received positive reviews from both players and critics who praised the narrative, characters, gameplay, unique take on the JRPG sub-genre, and presentation.
Yakuza: Like a Dragon is the first to use the Japanese title worldwide, albeit as a subtitle. The game was followed up by a 2023 spin-off, Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name, and a mainline sequel, Like a Dragon: Infinite Wealth, in 2024.

Title: Yakuza Kiwami
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuza_Kiwami
Excerpt: Yakuza Kiwami is a 2016 action-adventure game developed by Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio and published by Sega. It is a remake of Yakuza, the first game in the Yakuza series, originally released on the PlayStation 2. Yakuza Kiwami was released on PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 in Japan on January 21, 2016, and on PlayStation 4 in Europe and North America on August 29, 2017. It was also ported to Windows via Steam worldwide on February 19, 2019, to Xbox One on April 21, 2020, to Amazon Luna on December 22, 2022, to Nintendo Switch on October 24, 2024, and to Nintendo Switch 2 on November 13, 2025. Versions for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S were released on December 8, 2025.
Like the original PlayStation 2 game, Yakuza Kiwami explores the life of Kazuma Kiryu who is demoted from his clan after taking the blame for his boss's murder. After a decade in prison, Kiryu searches for his old friends who have gone missing. The remake adds extra elements to the story, including Akira Nishikiyama's corruption during Kiryu's imprisonment and constant struggles between Kiryu and his rival Goro Majima. The gameplay was adjusted to resemble the prequel Yakuza 0, with the aim of adding more depth to the fighting system.
Sega had ideas to remake the first Yakuza game in 2015 as part of the series' 10th anniversary but were unsure about developing due to their team focused on making Yakuza 0. Following the success of Yakuza 0, Sega started working on the remake of the first game and aimed to add new elements to the story while trying to make it more enjoyable than the original game. The game was well received, earning positive sales. Critics praised the simplicity of the combat but were divided by the handling of the storyline and side missions. Nonetheless, the Majima Everywhere system was praised for its comedic value. Yakuza Kiwami was followed up by Yakuza 6: The Song of Life later in 2016, and another remake based on the second game titled Yakuza Kiwami 2 was also released in 2017.