Title: The Righteous Brothers
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Righteous_Brothers
Excerpt: The Righteous Brothers are an American musical duo originally formed by Bill Medley and Bobby Hatfield but now comprising Medley and Bucky Heard. Medley formed the group with Hatfield in 1963. They had first performed together in 1962 in the Los Angeles area as part of a five-member group called the Paramours, and adopted the name the Righteous Brothers when they became a duo. Their most active recording period was in the 1960s and '70s, and, after several years inactive as a duo, Hatfield and Medley reunited in 1981 and continued to perform until Hatfield's death in 2003. The term "blue-eyed soul" is thought to have been coined by Philadelphia radio DJ Georgie Woods in 1964 when describing the duo's music.
Hatfield and Medley had contrasting vocal ranges, which helped them create a distinctive sound as a duet. They each had the vocal talent to perform as soloists. Medley sang the low parts with his bass-baritone voice, with Hatfield taking the higher-register vocals with his tenor. His voice reached the register of a countertenor.
Following a year and a half of Top 40 non-entries on Billboard's Hot 100, the duo hit big with the late-1964 release of what would become their signature record, "You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'" – a transatlantic number one produced by Phil Spector, often considered one of his finest works and a landmark recording in popular music. Other notable hits include three US 1965 Top Tens – "Just Once in My Life" and covers of "Unchained Melody" (also a huge hit in 1990 after being featured in the film Ghost) and "Ebb Tide" – and the massive US 1966 number one "(You're My) Soul and Inspiration", plus the 1974 comeback hit "Rock and Roll Heaven". Both Hatfield and Medley also had for a time their own solo careers. In 2016, Medley re-formed The Righteous Brothers with Bucky Heard and they continue to perform as a duo.
The Righteous Brothers were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2003 and into the Vocal Group Hall of Fame in 2005. Rolling Stone ranked them no. 16 on its list of the 20 Greatest Duos of All Time.

Title: The Youngbloods
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Youngbloods
Excerpt: The Youngbloods were an American rock band consisting of Jesse Colin Young (vocals, bass, guitar), Jerry Corbitt (vocals, guitar, keyboards, harmonica), Lowell "Banana" Levinger (guitar and electric piano), and Joe Bauer (drums). Despite receiving critical acclaim, they never achieved widespread popularity. Their only U.S. Top 40 entry was Chet Powers's "Get Together".

Title: The Hollies
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hollies
Excerpt: The Hollies were an English rock and pop band formed in Salford in 1962 by singer Allan Clarke and rhythm guitarist/singer Graham Nash. One of the most successful British bands of the 1960s and 1970s, their first stable line-up consisted of Clarke, Nash, lead guitarist Tony Hicks, bassist Eric Haydock, and drummer Don Rathbone. Rathbone was replaced by Bobby Elliott in late 1963, while Haydock was replaced by Bernie Calvert in mid-1966. During the Hollies' early years, most of their original songs were written by the trio of Clarke/Hicks/Nash, until Nash left the group in late 1968 to co-form Crosby, Stills & Nash, and was replaced by Terry Sylvester. Apart from a short time during late 1971 to early 1973 (during which Clarke was replaced by Mikael Rickfors), the Clarke/Hicks/Elliott/Calvert/Sylvester line-up remained in place until Calvert and Sylvester both departed in 1981. Over the next 23 years, the band underwent several more personnel changes, including a brief return of Nash during the 1980s and the final departure of Clarke in 2000, before stabilising in 2004 with their last line-up of Hicks, Elliott, singer Peter Howarth, rhythm guitarist Steve Lauri, bassist Ray Stiles, and keyboardist Ian Parker.
The Hollies enjoyed considerable popularity in the UK and Europe during the mid-1960s with a string of hits that included "Searchin'", "Stay" (both 1963), "Just One Look", "Here I Go Again", "We're Through" (all 1964), "Yes I Will", their first UK number one "I'm Alive", "Look Through Any Window", "If I Needed Someone" (all 1965) and "I Can't Let Go" (1966), although they did not achieve US chart success until "Bus Stop" was released in 1966. The group went on to have periodic success on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean over the next decade, with further UK and/or US hits including "Stop Stop Stop" (1966), "On a Carousel", "Pay You Back with Interest", "Carrie Anne", "King Midas in Reverse" (all 1967), "Dear Eloise", "Jennifer Eccles", "Listen to Me" (all 1968), "Sorry Suzanne", "He Ain't Heavy, He's My Brother" (both 1969), "I Can't Tell the Bottom from the Top", "Gasoline Alley Bred" (both 1970), "Hey Willy" (1971), "Long Cool Woman in a Black Dress", "Long Dark Road" (both 1972), "The Day That Curly Billy Shot Down Crazy Sam McGee" (1973) and "The Air That I Breathe" (1974). "He Ain't Heavy" reached number one on the UK Singles Chart following a 1988 re-release. Overall, the Hollies had over 30 charting singles on the UK Singles Chart, and 22 on the US Billboard Hot 100.
The Hollies disbanded following Hicks and Elliott's retirement from touring in 2026. At the time, they were one of the few UK groups of the early 1960s, along with the Rolling Stones, who had never disbanded. In recognition of their achievements, the Hollies were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2010.

Title: Captain Hollywood Project
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Captain_Hollywood_Project
Excerpt: Captain Hollywood Project is a German eurodance music project best known for the hits "More and More," "Only with You" and "Flying High." At the peak of its success in the 1990s, the project achieved ten top-20 hits on European music charts. The project was first formed in 1990 in Nuremberg, Germany by American rapper/singer, dancer and music producer Tony Dawson-Harrison (a.k.a. Captain Hollywood). When first naming the project, Harrison chose the name 'Captain Hollywood Project' in order to distinguish his new music for the project from his music from previous years. He also chose the name to give himself the creative freedom as executive producer to involve any singer, songwriter or producer of his choice when producing each of the new songs for the project. Even though the act has been viewed as a one-man act starring Harrison as the rapper/frontman, an ensemble of female backup singers, dancers and backing musicians have been traditionally included in the act by Harrison. Today, Captain Hollywood Project is recognized as a live performing duo act starring Harrison and singer/dancer Shirin von Gehlen (a.k.a. Shirin Amour) as the project's lead singer and frontwoman. Together with their live musicians and dancers, Harrison and von Gehlen perform the Captain Hollywood Project hits year-round at concert venues in the United States, Canada, South America, Europe, Russia and Australia.

Title: Oliver Tree
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oliver_Tree
Excerpt: Oliver Tree Nickell (June 29, 1993 – June 14, 2026) was an American singer-songwriter, rapper, and record producer. Born in Santa Cruz, California, Tree signed to Atlantic Records in 2017 after his song "When I'm Down" went viral. He released his debut studio album Ugly Is Beautiful in July 2020, which included the RIAA gold and platinum-certified singles "Alien Boy", "Hurt", "Miracle Man" and "Let Me Down". Classified as a "genre-defying musician", he achieved international recognition with his songs "Life Goes On" in 2021 and "Miss You" in 2022. Tree released his second studio album, Cowboy Tears, in February 2022; his third studio album, Alone in a Crowd, in September 2023; and his fourth studio album, Love You Madly Hate You Badly, in April 2026.
On May 30, 2026, Tree began his first world tour to promote Love You Madly Hate You Badly. The tour abruptly ended after Tree was killed in a helicopter collision over Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on June 14. Tree and five others, Gaspi, Lucas A. Vignale, Lucas Frota and the two helicopter pilots, were all confirmed to be victims of the crash by Rio de Janeiro police.