Title: Three's Company
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three%27s_Company
Excerpt: Three's Company is an American television sitcom that aired for eight seasons on ABC from March 15, 1977, to September 18, 1984. Developed by Don Nicholl, Michael Ross and Bernie West, it is based on the British sitcom Man About the House created by Brian Cooke and Johnnie Mortimer.
The story revolves around three single roommates: Jack Tripper, Janet Wood, and Chrissy Snow, who all platonically live together in a Santa Monica, California, apartment complex owned by Stanley and Helen Roper. The show, a farce, chronicles the escapades and hijinks of the trio's constant misunderstandings, social lives, and financial struggles. A top-10 hit from 1977 to 1983, the series has remained popular in syndication and through DVD releases. The show also spawned spin-offs similar to those that Man About the House had: The Ropers and Three's a Crowd, based upon George and Mildred and Robin's Nest, respectively.

Title: Yucaipa Companies
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yucaipa_Companies
Excerpt: The Yucaipa Companies, LLC is an American private equity firm founded in 1986 by Ronald Burkle. It specializes in a private equity and venture capital, with a focus on middle-market companies, growth capital, industry consolidation, leveraged buyouts and turnaround investments. It generally invests $25–300 million in companies with $300–$500 million in revenues.
Yucaipa has a history of leveraged buyouts in supermarket and grocery chains, beginning with Jurgensen's Markets in 1986. After several standalone investments in the late 1980s, it went on to lead the consolidation of West Coast retail that occurred during the 1990s due in part to the rise of discount centers like Wal-Mart. In November 2013.

Title: Hartfield-Zodys
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hartfield-Zodys
Excerpt: Hartfield-Zodys was an American retail corporation begun in 1960. It operated the Hartfield chain of women's ready-to-wear apparel in the Los Angeles area, and starting in 1960, the Zodys chain of discount retail stores (1960–1986), which operated locations in California, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico, and Michigan.

Title: Alphabet Inc.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alphabet_Inc.
Excerpt: Alphabet Inc. is an American multinational technology conglomerate holding company headquartered in Mountain View, California. It was created through a restructuring of Google on October 2, 2015, and became the parent holding company of Google and several former Google subsidiaries. Alphabet is listed on the large-cap section of the Nasdaq under the ticker symbols GOOGL and GOOG; both classes of stock are components of major stock market indices such as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq-100. Alphabet has been described as a Big Tech company. As of July 2026, it is the third largest publicly traded company in the world by market capitalization.
The establishment of Alphabet Inc. was prompted by a desire to make the core Google business "cleaner and more accountable" while allowing greater autonomy to group companies that operate in businesses other than Internet services. Founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin announced their resignation from their executive posts in December 2019, with the CEO role to be filled by Sundar Pichai, who is also the CEO of Google. Page and Brin remain employees, board members, and controlling shareholders of Alphabet Inc.
Alphabet Inc. has faced numerous legal and ethical controversies, including a 2017 lawsuit against Uber over stolen self-driving technology, a 2020 privacy settlement over Google+ data exposure, and multiple antitrust actions from the United States, France, and Japan. It has also been accused of labor law violations related to worker organizing and was forced to file for bankruptcy in Russia after its bank account was seized in 2022. In 2023, the company was widely criticized for mass layoffs that impacted 12,000 employees, many of whom discovered their termination only upon losing account access.

Title: What Is a Woman?
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/What_Is_a_Woman%3F
Excerpt: What Is a Woman? is a 2022 American documentary film about gender and transgender issues, directed by Justin Folk and presented by conservative political commentator Matt Walsh. It was released and distributed by conservative website The Daily Wire. In it, Walsh asks various people "what is a woman?" with the goal of showing them that their definition of womanhood is circular. Walsh said he made it in opposition to what he calls gender ideology. According to transgender activists and others who appeared in it, Walsh had invited individuals to participate under false pretenses.  It was released to subscribers of The Daily Wire on June 1, 2022, coinciding with the start of Pride Month.
What Is a Woman? received mixed reviews from critics, with Walsh's approach garnered praise from conservative commentators, while drawing criticism from other sources, including advocates of transgender healthcare. It is described in many sources as anti-trans, or transphobic, with some calling it a propaganda film. Fact checkers have shown that some of the claims in it are false. Walsh's tour to showcase What Is a Woman? at college campuses sparked protests. In June 2023, during the subsequent Pride Month, it gained further attention when Elon Musk promoted it on Twitter.