Title: Conan the Barbarian
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conan_the_Barbarian
Excerpt: Conan the Barbarian (also known as Conan the Cimmerian) is a fictional sword and sorcery hero created by American author Robert E. Howard (1906–1936). He debuted in 1932 and went on to appear in a series of fantasy stories published in Weird Tales magazine. After first appearing in pulp magazines, the character has since been adapted to books, comics, films (including Conan the Barbarian and Conan the Destroyer), television programmes (animated and live action), video games, and role-playing games.
The earliest appearance of a Robert E. Howard character named Conan was that of a black-haired barbarian with heroic attributes in the 1931 short story "People of the Dark". Howard wrote 21 stories featuring Conan in his lifetime. Many other writers have since written additional Conan stories over the years.
Many Conan the Barbarian stories feature Conan embarking on heroic adventures filled with common fantasy elements such as princesses and wizards. Howard's mythopoeia has the stories set in the legendary Hyborian Age, set between the destruction of Atlantis and the beginning of recorded history. Conan is a Cimmerian, who are descendants of the Atlanteans and ancestors of the modern Gaels. Conan is himself a descendant of Kull of Atlantis (an earlier adventurer of Howard's). He was born on a battlefield and raised by his father, a blacksmith.
Conan is characterized as chivalric due to his penchant to save damsels in distress and fight for causes that do not directly benefit him. He possesses great strength, combativeness, intelligence, agility, and endurance. The barbarian's appearance is iconic, with square-cut black hair, blue eyes, tanned skin, and giant stature.
Conan books increased in popularity thanks to covers painted by Frank Frazetta, which cemented the current popular appearance of Conan. Comics published in the 1970s by Marvel Comics drew further popularity to the character, introducing the now iconic image of Conan in his loincloth. The most popular cinematic adaptation is the 1982 film Conan the Barbarian directed by John Milius and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger as Conan.

Title: China Miéville
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China_Mi%C3%A9ville
Excerpt: China Tom Miéville ( mee-AY-vəl, born 6 September 1972) is a British speculative fiction writer and literary critic. He often describes his work as "weird fiction", and is allied to the loosely associated movement of writers called New Weird.
Miéville has won multiple awards for his fiction, including the Arthur C. Clarke Award, British Fantasy Award, BSFA Award, Hugo Award, Locus Award, and World Fantasy Awards. He holds the record for the most Arthur C. Clarke Award wins (three). His novel Perdido Street Station was ranked by Locus as the 6th best fantasy novel published in the 20th century. During 2012–13, he was writer-in-residence at Roosevelt University in Chicago. He became a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 2015.
Miéville is active in left politics in the UK and has previously been a member of the International Socialist Organization (US) and the short-lived International Socialist Network (UK). He was formerly a member of the Socialist Workers Party, and in 2013 became a founding member of Left Unity. He stood for Regent's Park and Kensington North for the Socialist Alliance in the 2001 United Kingdom general election, gaining 1.2% of votes cast.

Title: Expatriate
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expatriate
Excerpt: An expatriate (often shortened to expat) is a person who resides outside their native country.
The term often refers to a professional, skilled worker or artist from a wealthy country. It may also refer to retirees and other individuals who have chosen to live outside their native country. Students are usually not referred to as expats.
The International Organization for Migration of the United Nations defines the term as "a person who voluntarily renounces his or her nationality". Historically, it has also been used to refer to exiles.
The UAE is the country with the highest percentage of expatriates in the world after the Vatican City, with expatriates in the United Arab Emirates representing about 88% of the population.

Title: Character race
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Character_race
Excerpt: Character race is a descriptor used to describe the various sapient species and beings that make up the setting in modern fantasy and science fiction. In many tabletop role-playing games and video games, players may choose to be one of these creatures when creating their player character (PC) or encounter them as a non-player character (NPC). "People" is to be taken in the broader sense, and may encompass ethnic groups, species, nationality or social groups.

Title: The Ice Schooner
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Ice_Schooner
Excerpt: The Ice Schooner is a post-apocalyptic fantasy novel by Michael Moorcock first published in 1966. It is a grimdark retelling of Moby Dick combined with elements of Joseph Conrad's sailing adventures.