Title: Federal Bureau of Investigation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_Bureau_of_Investigation
Excerpt: The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is the domestic intelligence and security service of the United States and its principal federal law enforcement agency. An agency of the United States Department of Justice, the FBI is a member of the U.S. Intelligence Community and reports to both the attorney general and the director of national intelligence. A leading American counterterrorism, counterintelligence, and criminal investigative organization, the FBI has jurisdiction over violations of more than 200 categories of federal crimes.  The FBI maintains a list of its top 10 most wanted fugitives.
Although many of the FBI's functions are unique, its activities in support of national security are comparable to those of the British MI5 and NCA and the Russian FSB. Unlike the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), which has no law enforcement authority and is focused on intelligence collection abroad, the FBI is primarily a domestic agency, maintaining 56 field offices in major cities throughout the United States, and more than 400 resident agencies in smaller cities and areas across the nation. At an FBI field office, a senior-level FBI officer concurrently serves as the representative of the director of national intelligence.
Despite its domestic focus, the FBI also maintains a significant international footprint, operating 60 Legal Attache (LEGAT) offices and 15 sub-offices in U.S. embassies and consulates across the globe. These foreign offices exist primarily for the purpose of coordination with foreign security services and do not usually conduct unilateral operations in the host countries. The FBI can and does at times carry out secret activities overseas, just as the CIA has a limited domestic function. These activities generally require coordination across government agencies.
The FBI was established in 1908 as the Bureau of Investigation, the BOI or BI for short. Its name was changed to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in 1935. The FBI headquarters is the J. Edgar Hoover Building in Washington, D.C.

Title: People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Mojahedin_Organization_of_Iran
Excerpt: The People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran (PMOI), also known as Mojahedin-e-Khalq (MEK) or Mojahedin-e-Khalq Organization (MKO; Persian: سازمان مجاهدین خلق ایران, romanised: Sâzmân-e Mojâhedin-e Khalgh-e Irân), is an Iranian dissident organisation. It was an armed group until 2003, afterwards switching focus into a political group. Its headquarters is currently in Albania. The group's ideology has been historically influenced by Islamic and revolutionary socialist philosophies, particularly through a re-interpretative approach to Shia Islam. After the Iranian Revolution, the MEK opposed the new theocratic Government of Iran, seeking to replace it with its own government. At one point the MEK was Iran's "largest and most active armed dissident group", and it is still sometimes presented by Western political backers as a major Iranian opposition group. The MEK is unpopular today within Iran, largely due to its siding with Iraq in the Iran–Iraq War and continued ties with the government of Saddam Hussein afterwards.
The MEK was founded in 1965 by leftist Iranian students affiliated with the Freedom Movement of Iran to oppose the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. The organisation contributed to overthrowing the Shah during the 1979 Iranian Revolution. It subsequently pursued the establishment of a democracy in Iran, particularly gaining support from Iran's middle class intelligentsia. The MEK boycotted the 1979 constitutional referendum, which led to Khomeini barring MEK leader Massoud Rajavi from the 1980 presidential election. The MEK organised the 20 June 1981 Iranian protests against Khomeini and the ousting of President Abolhassan Banisadr. The protests were violently suppressed by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, which shot into the crowds, killing 50, before executing 23 further protesters who had been arrested, including teenage girls. On 28 June, the MEK was implicated in the blowing up of the headquarters of the Islamic Republican Party (IRP) in the Haft-e Tir bombing, killing 74 officials and party members. A wave of killings and executions led by Khomeini's government followed, part of the 1981–1982 Iran massacres.
Rajavi fled to Paris and during the exile, the underground network that remained in Iran continued to plan and carry out attacks. It allegedly conducted the August 1981 bombing that killed Iran's president and prime minister. In 1983, the MEK began meeting with Iraqi officials. In 1986, France expelled the MEK at the request of Iran, forcing it to relocate to Camp Ashraf in Iraq. In 1987, it founded the "National Liberation Army of Iran" (NLA), with the sole objective of "toppling the Islamic Republic through military force from outside the country". During the Iran–Iraq War, the MEK then sided with Iraq, taking part in Operation Forty Stars, and Operation Mersad. Following Operation Mersad, Iranian officials ordered the mass execution of prisoners said to support the MEK. The group gained significant publicity in 2002 by announcing the existence of Iranian nuclear facilities. In 2003, the MEK's military wing signed a ceasefire agreement with the U.S. and was disarmed at Camp Ashraf.
Between 1997 and 2013, the MEK was on the lists of terrorist organisations of the US, Canada, EU, UK and Japan for various periods. The MEK is designated as a terrorist organisation by Iran. Critics have described the group as exhibiting traits of a "personality cult", while its backers describe the group as proponents of "a free and democratic Iran" that could become the next government there.

Title: Hellenic Police
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hellenic_Police
Excerpt: The Hellenic Police (Greek: Ελληνική Αστυνομία, romanized: Ellinikí Astynomía, abbreviated ΕΛ.ΑΣ.) is the national police service and one of the three security forces of Greece (the others being the Hellenic Fire Service and the Hellenic Coast Guard). It is a large agency with responsibilities ranging from road traffic control to counter-terrorism. Police Lieutenant General Dimitrios Mallios is Chief of the Hellenic Police. He replaced Lazaros Mavropoulos in January 2024. The Hellenic Police force was established in 1984 under Law 1481/1-10-1984 (Government Gazette 152/A/8-10-1984) as the result of the merger of the Gendarmerie (Χωροφυλακή, Chorofylakí, 1833–1984) and the Cities Police (Αστυνομία Πόλεων, Astynomía Póleon, 1921–1984) forces.
According to Law 7187/2025 which reorganized, upgraded and modernized the Hellenic Police's structure, mission and modus operandi, replacing the previous Law 2800/2000, the Hellenic Police is a security force whose primary missions are:

the Protection of the State, including
The Protection of the Democratic Regime and the State Institutions
The Neutralization of Threats which Risk the State's Security
The Protection of State Officials, Local and Foreign, who are Located in the Country
The Inspection of Compliance with Laws regarding Weapons and Explosive Devices
The Tackling of Terrorism and Extremist Violence
Public Security, including
The Prosecution of Crimes Against Life & Personal Freedom and Property Crimes
The Prosecution of Cybercrime
The Prosecution of Narcotics Trafficking
The Prosecution of Illegal Trade and Antiquities Smuggling
The Prosecution of Human Trafficking
The Prosecution of Financial Crime
The Prosecution of Domestic and Transborder Organized Crime
The Search for Missing Persons, as well as for Lost and Stolen Items
The Search and Arrest of Prosecuted Persons
General and Traffic Policing, including
The Assurance of Social Peace and Citizen Protection
The Maintenance of Order in Public Spaces and Public Gatherings and the Protection of the Personal and Collective Rights of Citizens during said Conditions
The Inspection of the Lawful Operation of Stores
The Transport of Prisoners from Detention Facilities to the Courts of Law
The Inspection of Compliance with Tourist Laws
The Regulation of Traffic in Public Spaces
The Enforcement of Traffic Laws and Regulations
The Investigation of Traffic Accidents
Community Policing, including
The Protection of Human Rights and the Fundamental Freedoms secured by the Constitution
The Protection of Family Integrity and the Tackling of Domestic Violence
The Tackling of Gender-Based Violence
The Tackling of Hate Crimes, specifically the Prosecution of Offences against Persons or Groups due to their race, skin color, ethnic descent, religion, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity or characteristics
The Protection of Underage or other Vulnerable Individuals
Foreigners Policing and Border Protection, including
The Prevention, Deterrence and Suppression of Illegal Entry and Exit of Foreign Citizens to the Country, as well as their Illegal Employment
The Tracking and Arrest of Foreign Citizens who Enter, Exit, Reside and Work Illegally in the Country and their Referral to the Judicial Authorities or their Repatriation, as well as the Tracking and Arrest of Persons who Illegally Traffic or Facilitate the Illegal Entry, Exit and Employment of the Foreign Persons and their Referral to the Judicial Authorities
The Detention of Foreigners who have Illegally Entered or Reside in the Country in Specific Detention Facilities
The Hellenic Police is constituted along central and regional lines. The force takes direction from the Minister for Citizen Protection.

Title: Preet Bharara
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Preet_Bharara
Excerpt: Preetinder Singh Bharara (; born October 13, 1968) is an Indian-born American attorney and former federal prosecutor who served as the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York from 2009 to 2017. As of 2025, he is a partner at the WilmerHale law firm.
A graduate of Harvard College and Columbia Law School, Bharara worked as an attorney in private practice during his early career. From 2000 to 2005, he served as an assistant U.S. attorney. Bharara then worked as chief counsel to Senator Chuck Schumer from 2005 to 2009; during this time, Bharara was heavily involved in Schumer's investigation of the 2006 presidential dismissal of U.S. attorneys.
In 2009, Bharara was appointed by President Barack Obama to the position of U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York. His office prosecuted the Italian mafia, convicting four out of the Five Families. Bharara similarly headed various counter-terrorism probes and cases, particularly against Al-Qaeda. His office used a variety of unconventional tactics such as wiretapping and asset seizure; he prosecuted nearly 100 Wall Street executives for insider trading and securities fraud using these legal methods. Bharara closed settlements with the four largest banks in the country and shut down multiple hedge funds. Known for his technocratic approach to prosecution, he convicted a number of Democratic and Republican politicians on public corruption charges. Bharara occasionally pursued criminals extraterritorially. Following a 2013 Russian money laundering investigation, Russian officials permanently banned him from entering Russia. The prosecution of Indian diplomat Devyani Khobragade by his office in 2013 led to a strain in India–United States relations. On March 11, 2017, during the administration of President Donald Trump, Bharara was dismissed after refusing to submit his resignation.

Title: List of Hong Kong national security cases
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Hong_Kong_national_security_cases
Excerpt: The Law of the People's Republic of China on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (Hong Kong National Security Law, National Security Law, or NSL) came into effect on 30 June 2020 after the imposition by the National People's Congress of China. The Safeguarding National Security Ordinance, which took effect on 23 March 2024, was enacted to implement Article 23 of Hong Kong's constitution, the Basic Law. The list below shows cases concerning Hong Kong National Security, including those arrested or charged under the NSL or the national security ordinance, and other cases involving the operation of the National Security Department of the Hong Kong Police Force (National Security Department, NSD) in spite of suspected crimes neither related to the NSL nor the national security ordinance.
As of 1 June 2026, a total of 401 individuals had been arrested on suspicion of acts and activities endangering national security since the national security law was enacted, some of whom have been sentenced to jail. In October 2022, John Lee, the incumbent Hong Kong Chief Executive, delivered his inaugural policy address on the law, signaling his administration's intent to strengthen control.