Title: Orlando, Florida
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orlando,_Florida
Excerpt: Orlando (  or-LAN-doh) is a city in and the county seat of Orange County, Florida, United States. Part of Central Florida, it is the fourth-most populous city in the state and its most populous inland city, with a population of 307,573 at the 2020 census. The Orlando metropolitan area has an estimated 2.67 million residents as of 2020, making it the third-largest metropolitan area in Florida and the 22nd-largest in the U.S.
Orlando attracts tourism and conventions with major events and theme parks. It is the fourth-most visited city in the U.S. after New York City, Miami, and Los Angeles, with over 3.5 million visitors as of 2023. Orlando International Airport is the 7th-busiest airport in the United States and the 18th-busiest in the world. The two largest and most internationally renowned tourist attractions in the Orlando area are the Walt Disney World resort, opened by the Walt Disney Company in 1971 and located about 21 miles (34 km) southwest of Orlando in Bay Lake, and the Universal Orlando resort, opened in 1990 as a major expansion of Universal Studios Florida and the only theme park inside Orlando city limits.
Apart from its theme parks, most major cultural sites such as the Orlando Museum of Art and the Dr. Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, and nightlife, bars, and clubs are located in downtown Orlando. Other attractions like Orlando Eye at ICON Park are located along International Drive. The city is also one of the busiest American cities for conferences and conventions; the Orange County Convention Center is the second-largest convention facility in the United States. Orlando is commonly associated with the nearby University of Central Florida, one of the largest universities in the United States. The city's major league professional sports teams include the Orlando Magic (NBA), Orlando Pride (NWSL) and Orlando City SC (MLS).

Title: Vero Beach, Florida
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vero_Beach,_Florida
Excerpt: Vero Beach is a city in and the county seat of Indian River County, Florida, United States. According to the 2020 census, the city had a population of 16,354. Nicknamed "The Hibiscus City", Vero is situated about 85 miles (137 km) southeast of Orlando along the Indian River Lagoon and the Atlantic Ocean on Florida's Treasure Coast. Because it is located about 65 miles (105 km) north of West Palm Beach at the northern end of the South Florida region, the city has adopted two similar mottos "The Gateway to the Tropics" and "Where the Tropics Begin".
Vero Beach was named the 7th Best Small Beach Town in Florida by Southern Living Magazine in 2023. The main roadways in the city are U.S. Route 1, Florida State Road A1A, and Florida State Road 60 (20th Street), which has its eastern terminus at Sexton Plaza in the city.

Title: Lake Seminole
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lake_Seminole
Excerpt: Lake Seminole (, SEM-i-nohl) is a reservoir located in the southwest corner of Georgia along its border with Florida, maintained by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The Chattahoochee and Flint rivers join in the lake, before flowing from the Jim Woodruff Lock and Dam, which impounds the lake, as the Apalachicola River. The lake contains 37,500 acres (152 km2) of water, and has a shoreline of 376 mi (605 km). The fish in Lake Seminole include largemouth bass, crappie, chain pickerel, catfish, striped bass and other species. American alligators, snakes and various waterfowl are also present in the lake, which is known for its goose hunting.

Title: Mesa Gateway Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesa_Gateway_Airport
Excerpt: Mesa Gateway Airport (IATA: AZA, ICAO: KIWA, FAA LID: IWA) – also known as Phoenix–Mesa Airport – is an airport in southeastern Mesa, Arizona, located approximately 20 miles (17 nmi; 32 km) southeast of Phoenix, in Maricopa County. The airport, owned and operated by the Mesa Gateway Airport Authority, is a reliever airport for Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport. It is a base for Allegiant Air.
The FAA's National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2007–2011 called Mesa Gateway a reliever airport, which is a general aviation airport used to relieve congestion at a large airline airport. Allegiant Air began scheduled service from Mesa in October 2007. Mesa Gateway Airport reports the airport had 1,772,678 passenger boardings in 2019.
Although most U.S. airports use the same three-letter location identifier for the FAA and IATA, Mesa Gateway Airport has different codes for each. The aviation community generally uses the FAA code of IWA, while commercial passenger-flight organizations use the IATA code of AZA.

Title: Flamingo Crossings
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flamingo_Crossings
Excerpt: Flamingo Crossings, also known as Flamingo Crossings Town Center, is an outdoor shopping, dining, residential, and entertainment complex at the Walt Disney World Resort in Bay Lake, Florida (with a Winter Garden postal address). First announced by Disney in 2007, the complex officially opened in 2021 with an initial phase of businesses, with more planned in future development.