Title: Cyclops (Marvel Comics)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyclops_(Marvel_Comics)
Excerpt: Cyclops is a superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Stan Lee and artist/co-plotter Jack Kirby, the character first appeared in The X-Men #1 (cover dated September 1963) as a founding member of the X-Men. Cyclops is a member of a subspecies of humans known as mutants, born with superhuman abilities. Cyclops emits powerful beams of energy from his eyes and can only control the beams with the aid of special eyewear, which he must always wear. He was the first member of the X-Men, a team of mutant heroes who fight for peace and equality between mutants and humans, and one of the team's primary leaders.
The first-born son of Corsair, Scott Summers is the older brother of Havok. His first and most enduring love interest is his wife, Jean Grey, with the two having a daughter, Rachel Summers, from an alternate future. Other significant love interests include his ex-wife Madelyne Pryor—a clone of Jean and mother of his son Cable—and fellow X-Men member Emma Frost. Cyclops' archenemy is Mister Sinister, who is obsessed with the Summers and Grey bloodlines and has often manipulated events in Cyclops' life, resulting in various clashes with the X-Men.
Cyclops was initially portrayed as a traditional heroic figure and counterposed to antiheroes who challenge authority. In later decades, he becomes increasingly morally ambiguous. Major Cyclops storylines include "The Dark Phoenix Saga" (1980), "Mutant Massacre" (1986), "X-Cutioner's Song" (1992–1993), and "Avengers vs. X-Men" (2012). He is also a central character in the company-wide stories "Messiah Complex" (2007–2008), "Utopia" (2009) and the Krakoan Age (2019–2024).
The character was portrayed by James Marsden, Tim Pocock, and Tye Sheridan in 20th Century Fox's X-Men films (2000–2019). Marsden will reprise the role in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film Avengers: Doomsday (2026), and Kit Connor will portray the main MCU Cyclops in the untitled MCU X-Men film (2028).

Title: Quicksilver (Marvel Comics)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quicksilver_(Marvel_Comics)
Excerpt: Quicksilver is a character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, the character first appeared in The X-Men #4 (cover dated March 1964). Introduced as an antagonist in Magneto's Brotherhood of Evil Mutants alongside his twin sister, Scarlet Witch, Quicksilver later reformed and joined the Avengers beginning with The Avengers #16 (May 1965), becoming part of the team's second generation.
Quicksilver is the superhero persona of Pietro Maximoff, a speedster capable of moving and thinking at extreme speeds. Throughout Marvel continuity he was long portrayed as the mutant son of Magneto and a Romani woman, Magda, and as the half-brother of Polaris; he was also formerly married to Crystal of the Inhuman Royal Family, with whom he has a daughter, Luna. A 2015 retcon established that he and his sister were not Magneto's children or mutants, but ordinary children whose powers had been artificially induced by the High Evolutionary, which drew criticism that argued that the twins' connection to Magneto was integral to their characterization. Pietro and Wanda have been listed as among the most visible Romani characters in mainstream superhero comics.
Major Quicksilver stories include writer Peter David's run on X-Factor vol. 1 (1991–1993), which interpreted Pietro's chronic irritability as a psychological consequence of living at superspeed, and the eponymous ongoing series (1997–1998), which placed him as the reluctant leader of the Knights of Wundagore. He instigated the "House of M" event (2005), and the subsequent Son of M miniseries (2006) followed his attempt to reclaim his abilities through exposure to Terrigen Mist. Writer Saladin Ahmed's Quicksilver: No Surrender (2018) reframed the character's abrasiveness as anxiety rather than arrogance.
The character has appeared in a range of movie, television, and video game adaptations. Two separate live-action versions of Quicksilver were adapted by two different film studios, as a result of a rights dispute between Marvel and 20th Century Fox: Aaron Taylor-Johnson portrayed the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU)— a cameo appearance in Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), followed by a larger role in Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015)— while Evan Peters portrayed the character in the X-Men films by 20th Century Fox from 2014 to 2019. Gabriel Gurevich portrayed the character as a child in the MCU television miniseries WandaVision (2021), in which Peters also returned as an imposter Pietro.

Title: Inhumans
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inhumans
Excerpt: The Inhumans are a superhuman race of super beings appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The comic book series has usually focused more specifically on the adventures of the Inhuman Royal Family, and many people associate the name "Inhumans" with this particular team of superpowered characters.
The Inhumans first appeared in Fantastic Four #45 (December 1965), though members Medusa and Gorgon appeared in earlier issues of that series (#36 and #44, respectively). Their home, the city of Attilan, was first mentioned years earlier, in a Tuk the Caveboy story written and drawn by Jack Kirby that appeared in Captain America Comics #1 (March 1941). The city was described as the home of a race that was evolutionarily advanced when human beings were still in the Stone Age.
The Inhuman Royal Family has been adapted to numerous Marvel animated series and video games over the years.
Inhuman characters were introduced in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) in live action in the second season of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., while the Inhuman Royal Family is featured in the television series Inhumans, which premiered in 2017; the latter show was critically panned and lasted only one season. Earlier, a proposed film adaptation of the Inhumans was announced in 2014 by Marvel Studios but was later removed from its slate and never came to fruition. The Inhuman race was represented by the appearance of Black Bolt in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (2022), portrayed by Anson Mount who reprised his role from the television series.

Title: List of Inhumans
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Inhumans
Excerpt: The following is a list of known fictional characters who are Inhumans, a race of superhumans appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.

Title: Inhumans (TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inhumans_(TV_series)
Excerpt: Marvel's Inhumans, or simply Inhumans, is an American television series created by Scott Buck for ABC based on the Marvel Comics race of Inhumans. It is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) and acknowledges the franchise's other television series. It was produced by ABC Studios and Marvel Television in association with Devilina Productions, and was co-financed by IMAX Entertainment in a deal that gave the series a theatrical premiere. Buck served as showrunner on the series.
The series is centered on Black Bolt, portrayed by Anson Mount, and other members of the Inhuman Royal Family. Serinda Swan, Ken Leung, Eme Ikwuakor, Isabelle Cornish, Ellen Woglom, and Iwan Rheon also star. Marvel Studios announced an Inhumans film in 2014 as part of their Phase Three slate of films, with the species first introduced to the MCU in the series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. The film was removed from Marvel Studios' slate in April 2016, and the Inhumans series was announced that November, to be partly filmed using IMAX cameras. Buck joined the series in October, and Mount was cast in February 2017. Filming took place from March to June 2017, at the former Naval Air Station Barbers Point airfield in Kalaeloa, Hawaii and various locations on the island of Oahu.
Inhumans debuted on IMAX screens on September 1, 2017, the first live-action television series to do so. The theatrical run lasted two weeks, before the series premiered on ABC on September 29 and ran for eight episodes, concluding on November 10. The series was met with unfavorable reviews and low television ratings, and was canceled by ABC in May 2018. Mount reprised his role as an alternate version of Black Bolt in Marvel Studios' MCU film Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (2022).