Title: Doctor Who
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doctor_Who
Excerpt: Doctor Who is a British science fiction television series first broadcast by the BBC in 1963. The series, created by Sydney Newman, C. E. Webber and Donald Wilson, follows the adventures of the Doctor, an extraterrestrial being from a humanoid species known as Time Lords. The Doctor travels through space and time using a time travelling spaceship called the TARDIS, which has an exterior that resembles a British police box. The Doctor encounters various civilisations, which they seek to protect by outwitting foes and solving crises. The Doctor usually travels with a companion.
Beginning with William Hartnell, fourteen actors have headlined the series as the Doctor; the most recent being Ncuti Gatwa, who portrayed the Fifteenth Doctor from 2023 to 2025. The transition between actors is woven into the story via the plot device of regeneration. When a Time Lord is fatally injured or weakened by old age, their cells regenerate into a new body; while they retain their memories, their personality changes. The different portrayals function as distinct stages within a single, continuous narrative. Due to time travel, these different incarnations occasionally cross paths.
A British popular culture staple with a global cult following, the show has shaped generations of British television professionals. Fans of the series are sometimes referred to as Whovians. The series has been listed in Guinness World Records as the longest-running science-fiction television series in the world, as well as the "most successful" science-fiction series of all time, based on its overall broadcast ratings, DVD and book sales.
The series originally ran from 1963 to 1989. There was an unsuccessful attempt to revive regular production in 1996 with a backdoor pilot in the form of a television film titled Doctor Who. The series was relaunched in 2005, with production moving to BBC Wales in Cardiff. Since 2016, the show has been produced or co-produced by BBC Studios Productions in Cardiff. Since 2026, the series has been pending an invitation to tender for future episodes. The Doctor Who franchise, or Whoniverse, spans a wide range of media, including television spin-offs, literature, audio dramas, and films. As a global cultural phenomenon, it has become one of the most frequently referenced and parodied series in television history.

Title: The Who
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Who
Excerpt: The Who are an English rock band formed in London in 1964. Their classic lineup (1964–1978) consisted of lead vocalist Roger Daltrey, guitarist Pete Townshend, bassist John Entwistle, and drummer Keith Moon. Considered one of the most influential rock bands of the 20th century, their contributions to rock music include the development of the Marshall stack, large public address systems, the use of synthesisers, Entwistle's and Moon's influential playing styles, Townshend's feedback and power chord guitar technique, and the development of the rock opera. They are cited as an influence by many bands, particularly those in the hard rock, punk, power pop and mod genres. The group were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1990.
The Who evolved from an earlier group, the Detours, and established themselves as part of the pop art and mod movements, featuring auto-destructive art by destroying guitars and drums on stage. Their first single as the Who, "I Can't Explain" (1964), reached the UK top ten, and was followed by a string of hit singles including "Anyway, Anyhow, Anywhere", "My Generation" (both 1965), "Substitute", "I'm a Boy", "Happy Jack" (all 1966) and "Pictures of Lily" (1967). In 1967, they performed at the Monterey Pop Festival and released "I Can See for Miles", their only US top ten single. The group's 1969 concept album Tommy included the single "Pinball Wizard" and was a critical and commercial success.
Further festival appearances at Woodstock and the Isle of Wight, along with the concert album Live at Leeds (1970), established their reputation as a respected rock act. The success put pressure on lead songwriter Townshend, and the follow-up to Tommy, Lifehouse, was abandoned. Songs from the project made up the album Who's Next (1971), including the hits "Won't Get Fooled Again", "Baba O'Riley", and "Behind Blue Eyes". The group released another concept album, Quadrophenia (1973), as a celebration of their mod roots, and oversaw the film adaptation of Tommy (1975). Following the release of The Who by Numbers (1975), they continued to tour to large audiences before semi-retiring from live performances at the end of 1976. The release of Who Are You (1978) was overshadowed by Moon's death shortly after.
Former Small Faces and Faces drummer Kenney Jones replaced Moon, and the group resumed touring. In 1979, they released a film adaptation of Quadrophenia and the retrospective rockumentary The Kids Are Alright. The early 1980s brought two more albums, Face Dances (1981) and It's Hard (1982), and more successful world tours, though Townshend became weary of the group during this time, and they officially split in 1983. The Who occasionally re-formed for live appearances such as Live Aid in 1985, a 25th-anniversary tour in 1989 with Simon Phillips on drums, and a tour of Quadrophenia during 1996–1997 with Zak Starkey on drums. A full-time reunion began in 1999, with Starkey as drummer. After Entwistle's death in 2002, plans for a new album were delayed until 2006, when Endless Wire was released. Since Entwistle's death, the Who have continued to perform and tour officially as a duo of Daltrey and Townshend, augmented by various other musicians. Their twelfth album, Who, was released in 2019 and was supported by additional touring. In 2025, the band conducted their final tour, entitled The Song Is Over North American Farewell Tour.

Title: The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Ones_Who_Walk_Away_from_Omelas
Excerpt: "The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas" ( OH-mə-LAHSS) is a 1973 short work of philosophical fiction by American writer Ursula K. Le Guin. With deliberately both vague and vivid descriptions, the narrator depicts a summer festival in the utopian city of Omelas, whose prosperity depends on the perpetual misery of a single child. "The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas" was nominated for the Locus Award for Best Short Fiction in 1974 and won the Hugo Award for Best Short Story in 1974.

Title: The Man Who Would Be King
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Man_Who_Would_Be_King
Excerpt: "The Man Who Would Be King"  is an 1888 short story by Rudyard Kipling about two British adventurers in British India who become kings of Kafiristan, a remote part of Afghanistan. The story was first published in The Phantom 'Rickshaw and Other Tales (1888); it also appeared in Wee Willie Winkie and Other Child Stories (1895) and numerous later editions of that collection.  It has been adapted for other media a number of times.

Title: The Man Who Would Be King (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Man_Who_Would_Be_King_(film)
Excerpt: The Man Who Would Be King is a 1975 epic historical adventure film directed by John Huston, adapted by Huston and Gladys Hill from Rudyard Kipling's 1888 novella. It stars Sean Connery and Michael Caine in the leading roles, two rogue ex-soldiers who set off from late-19th-century British India in search of adventure and end up in faraway Kafiristan, where one is taken for a god and made their king. The supporting cast includes Saeed Jaffrey, Shakira Caine and Christopher Plummer as Kipling (giving a name to the novella's anonymous narrator).
An adaptation of Kipling's novella was a longtime passion project for director Huston, with development beginning in the late-1950s, and Clark Gable and Humphrey Bogart in mind for the leading roles. Shooting took place on-location in Morocco and France, and at Pinewood Studios in England. The musical score was composed by Maurice Jarre.
The Man Who Would Be King premiered at the 1975 Tehran International Film Festival, and was released in the United States on December 17. It received positive reviews from critics, who praised Huston's direction and the performances of Connery and Caine. It was also a commercial success.
The film was nominated for four Oscars at the 48th Academy Awards, including Best Adapted Screenplay. Both Connery and Caine have considered the movie their favorite of all they had worked on.