Title: Doctor Who
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doctor_Who
Excerpt: Doctor Who is a British science fiction television series first broadcast by the BBC in 1963. The series, created by Sydney Newman, C. E. Webber and Donald Wilson, follows the adventures of the Doctor, an extraterrestrial being from a humanoid species known as Time Lords. The Doctor travels through space and time using a time travelling spaceship called the TARDIS, which has an exterior that resembles a British police box. The Doctor encounters various civilisations, which they seek to protect by outwitting foes and solving crises. The Doctor usually travels with a companion.
Beginning with William Hartnell, fourteen actors have headlined the series as the Doctor; the most recent being Ncuti Gatwa, who portrayed the Fifteenth Doctor from 2023 to 2025. The transition between actors is woven into the story via the plot device of regeneration. When a Time Lord is fatally injured or weakened by old age, their cells regenerate into a new body; while they retain their memories, their personality changes. The different portrayals function as distinct stages within a single, continuous narrative. Due to time travel, these different incarnations occasionally cross paths.
A British popular culture staple with a global cult following, the show has shaped generations of British television professionals. Fans of the series are sometimes referred to as Whovians. The series has been listed in Guinness World Records as the longest-running science-fiction television series in the world, as well as the "most successful" science-fiction series of all time, based on its overall broadcast ratings, DVD and book sales.
The series originally ran from 1963 to 1989. There was an unsuccessful attempt to revive regular production in 1996 with a backdoor pilot in the form of a television film titled Doctor Who. The series was relaunched in 2005, with production moving to BBC Wales in Cardiff. Since 2016, the show has been produced or co-produced by BBC Studios Productions in Cardiff. Since 2026, the series has been pending an invitation to tender for future episodes. The Doctor Who franchise, or Whoniverse, spans a wide range of media, including television spin-offs, literature, audio dramas, and films. As a global cultural phenomenon, it has become one of the most frequently referenced and parodied series in television history.

Title: Yahoo! Inc. (1995–2017)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yahoo!_Inc._(1995%E2%80%932017)
Excerpt: Yahoo! Inc. was an American multinational technology company headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. Yahoo was founded by Jerry Yang and David Filo in January 1994 and was incorporated on March 2, 1995. Yahoo was one of the pioneers of the early internet era in the 1990s. Marissa Mayer, a former Google executive, was CEO and president of Yahoo from July 2012 until June 2017.
It was globally known for its Web portal, search engine Yahoo! Search, and related services, including Yahoo! Directory, Yahoo! Mail, Yahoo! News, Yahoo! Finance, Yahoo! Groups, Yahoo! Answers, advertising, online mapping, video sharing, fantasy sports, and its social media website. At its height, it was one of the most popular sites in the United States. According to third-party web analytics providers, Alexa and SimilarWeb, Yahoo! was the highest-read news and media website, with over seven billion views per month, being the sixth most visited website globally in 2016 According to news sources, roughly 700 million people visited Yahoo websites every month. Yahoo itself claimed it attracted "more than half a billion consumers every month in more than 30 languages".
Once the most popular website in the U.S., Yahoo slowly started to decline since the late 2000s, and on February 21, 2017, Verizon Communications announced its intent to acquire old Yahoo's internet business (excluding its stakes in Alibaba Group and Yahoo! Japan) for $4.48 billion—the company was once valued at over $100 billion. Before the transaction was completed, the company expected to change its name to Altaba Inc. Verizon completed its acquisition of the old iteration of Yahoo! Inc's internet business on June 13, 2017. Verizon announced that the old Yahoo! Inc's internet assets would be combined under a new subsidiary, Oath, which later became known as Verizon Media in 2019 and eventually renamed to the current iteration of Yahoo! Inc. in 2021.

Title: Pornographic film actor
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pornographic_film_actor
Excerpt: A pornographic film actor or actress, pornographic performer, adult entertainer, or porn star is a person who performs sexual activity on video that is usually characterized as a pornographic film. Such videos tend to be made in a number of distinct pornographic subgenres and attempt to present a sexual fantasy. The actors selected for a particular role are primarily selected on their ability to create or fit that fantasy. Pornographic videos are characterized as either softcore, which does not contain depictions of sexual penetration or extreme fetishism, and hardcore, which can contain depictions of penetration or extreme fetishism, or both. The genres and sexual intensity of videos is mainly determined by demand. Depending on the genre of the film, the on-screen appearance, age, and physical features of the actors and their ability to create the sexual mood of the video is of critical importance. Most actors specialize in certain genres, such as straight, bisexual, gay, lesbian, bondage, strap-on, anal, double penetration, semen swallowing, orgy, gang bang, age roleplay, fauxcest, interracial, teenage (18-19) or MILFs and more.
The pornography industry in the United States was the first to develop its own movie star system, primarily for commercial reasons. In other countries, the "star" system is not common, with most actors being amateurs. Most performers use a pseudonym and strive to maintain off-screen anonymity. A number of pornographic film actors and actresses have written autobiographies. It is very rare for pornographic film actors and actresses to successfully cross over to the mainstream film industry. Certain pornographic film actors have leveraged their success to branch into different entrepreneurial endeavours, such as Jenna Jameson's ClubJenna. 
Leaked patient database of Adult Industry Medical Health Care Foundation in 2011 contained details of over 12,000 pornographic film actors that it had tested since 1998, providing estimates of the number of pornographic film actors who have worked in the United States. As of 2011, it was reported that roughly 1,200–1,500 performers were working in California's "Porn Valley".

Title: Pornhub
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pornhub
Excerpt: Pornhub is a Canadian-owned Internet pornography video-sharing website, one of several owned by Aylo, an adult entertainment conglomerate formerly known as MindGeek/Manwin/Mansef. As of June 2026, Pornhub is the 25th-most-visited website in the world and the most-visited pornography website.
The site allows visitors to view pornographic videos from various categories, including professional and amateur pornography, and to upload and share their own videos. Content can be flagged if it violates the website's terms of service. The site also hosts the Pornhub Awards annually.
In December 2020, following a New York Times exposé of non-consensual pornography and sex trafficking, payment processors Mastercard and Visa cut their services to Pornhub. Pornhub then removed all videos uploaded by unverified users, reducing the total content from 13 million to 4 million videos. A 2023 documentary, Money Shot: The Pornhub Story, covers the opposition to Pornhub and the views of some pornographic performers.

Title: Toxic (2026 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toxic_(2026_film)
Excerpt: Toxic: A Fairy Tale for Grown-Ups is a 2026 Indian psychological thriller gangster film directed by Geetu Mohandas and jointly produced by Venkat K. Narayana and Yash through KVN Productions and Monster Mind Creations respectively. It stars Yash, Kiara Advani, Nayanthara, Huma Qureshi, Tara Sutaria, and Rukmini Vasanth.
The film was officially announced in December 2023 under the tentative title Yash 19, as it is the 19th film of Yash as a leading actor, with the official title revealed a few days later.  The film is reportedly budgeted at ₹500–1000 crore, making it one of the most expensive Indian films ever made. Principal photography took place from August 2024 to October 2025 across Bengaluru, Mumbai, Goa, Thoothukudi and Jaipur simultaneously shot in Kannada and English.
Toxic was released worldwide on 26 August 2026. The film received mostly negative reviews from critics, who criticised its screenplay, pacing, themes, substance abuse, sexual content and excessive violence, but praised the performances (particularly Yash and Kiara Advani), technical aspects, cinematography, ambition and action sequences.