Title: England national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/England_national_football_team
Excerpt: The England national football team have represented England in men's international football since the first international match in 1872. They are governed by The Football Association (FA), the governing body for football in England, which is affiliated with UEFA and FIFA. England competes in three major international tournaments: the FIFA World Cup, UEFA European Championship and UEFA Nations League.
England and Scotland are together the oldest national football teams, having played in the world's first international football match in 1872. England plays home matches at Wembley Stadium in London, and their training headquarters is St George's Park in Burton upon Trent. Thomas Tuchel is the current head coach.
England won the 1966 FIFA World Cup final on home soil, making them one of eight nations to have won the World Cup. They have qualified for the World Cup seventeen times, finishing in third place in 2026, and fourth place in 1990 and 2018. England have never won the European Championship, with their best performances to date being runners-up finishes in 2020 and 2024. As a constituent country of the United Kingdom, England are not a member of the International Olympic Committee (as English athletes compete for Great Britain), and so do not compete at the Olympic Games. England are the only team to have won the World Cup at senior level but not their own major continental title, and the only team representing a non–sovereign state to have won the World Cup. England shares football rivalries with Scotland, Germany and Argentina.

Title: Switzerland national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switzerland_national_football_team
Excerpt: The Switzerland national football team represents Switzerland in men's international football. The national team is controlled by the Swiss Football Association.
Switzerland's best performances at the FIFA World Cup have been four quarter-final appearances, in 1934, 1938, 1954 and 2026. They hosted the competition in 1954, where they played against Austria in their quarter-final match, losing 7–5, which still stands as the highest scoring World Cup match ever. At the 2006 FIFA World Cup, Switzerland set a FIFA World Cup record by being eliminated from the tournament despite not conceding a single goal, being eliminated by Ukraine after penalties in the round of 16. They did not concede a goal until a match against Chile at the 2010 World Cup, conceding in the 75th minute, setting a World Cup tournament record for consecutive minutes without conceding a goal.
Switzerland and Austria were the co-hosts of UEFA Euro 2008, where the Swiss made their third appearance in the competition, but failed for a third time to progress from the group stage. However, since then, the Swiss made it to the round of 16 during Euro 2016, and achieved a record-best quarter-final showing at Euro 2020 after eliminating world champions France. They then repeated this feat at Euro 2024, this time beating reigning champions Italy.
Overall, Switzerland's best ever result at an official football competition was the silver medal they earned in 1924, after losing to Uruguay 3–0 in the finals of the 1924 Olympic Games.

Title: Soccer AM
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soccer_AM
Excerpt: Soccer AM was a British football-based comedy talk show, produced by Sky Sports. It aired from 20 August 1994 to 27 May 2023 on Sky Showcase, Sky Sports Premier League and Sky Sports Football. From 2010, the programme was put on a short broadcast delay to allow censoring of profanity or other issues before it went to air.
Its best-known presenters were Helen Chamberlain, who presented the show for 22 years, and Tim Lovejoy, who hosted from 1996 to 2007. Its final set of presenters were John Fendley and ex-footballer Jimmy Bullard.
On 22 March 2023, Sky announced that the show would be axed after the end of the current footballing season.
The final episode aired on Saturday 27 May 2023, the day before the end of the 2022–23 Premier League season.

Title: APIA Leichhardt FC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/APIA_Leichhardt_FC
Excerpt: APIA Leichhardt FC (/ɑːpiə laɪkɑːrt/ AH-pee-ə lye-KART), also known simply as APIA (Italian: Associazione Poli-sportiva Italo Australiana, lit. 'Italian Australian Multisport Association'), is a semi-professional soccer club based in the suburb of Leichhardt in Sydney, New South Wales (NSW). Its senior men's and women's teams play in the National Premier Leagues NSW (NPL) and NSW Women's, in the second tier of the Australian league system. It plays its home games at both Lambert Park and Leichhardt Oval. With Wests Ashfield, the club also co-owns Wests APIA FC, a foundation club in the Australian Championship.
Founded in 1954 by the Italian Australian community in Sydney's Inner West, APIA was one of the charter members of Football NSW, and competed in its first division, where it won four NSW titles. On the national stage, the club appeared in four straight Australia Cup finals from 1964 to 1967, winning one, and subsequently joined the burgeoning National Soccer League (NSL) in 1979. It played fourteen seasons in the league, during which it won a championship, and two NSL Cups. Facing financial troubles, APIA exited following the 1991–92 season, and returned to NSW's first division, where it has remained since. Its women's team suffered a relegation in 2013, though eventually regained promotion to the first division in 2020.
APIA's honours include seven NSW men's titles, one women's title, six Waratah Cups, and two Sapphire Cups. Its best performances in the modern-day Australia Cup are quarter-final appearances in 2018 and 2021. It also reached the NPL's national semi-finals in 2017.

Title: Jimmy Rooney
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jimmy_Rooney
Excerpt: James Rooney (born 10 December 1945) is a former professional footballer who played as a left winger. Born in Scotland, he played for the Australia national team at international level and was member of the squad at the 1974 FIFA World Cup.