Title: Iron Chef
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iron_Chef
Excerpt: Iron Chef (料理の鉄人, Ryōri no Tetsujin; literally "Iron People of Cooking") is a Japanese television cooking show produced by Fuji Television. The series, which premiered on October 10, 1993, is a stylized cook-off featuring guest chefs challenging one of the show's resident "Iron Chefs" in a timed cooking battle built around a specific theme ingredient. The series ended on September 24, 1999, although four occasional specials were produced from January 5, 2000, to January 2, 2002. The series aired 309 episodes. Repeats are regularly aired on the Food Network in Canada, the Cooking Channel in the United States until Asian-American specialty television channel ChimeTV took over reruns in 2022, and on Special Broadcasting Service in Australia; in the United States, it is streamed by Peacock TV and Pluto TV. There are 5 spinoffs, with the latest being Iron Chef: Quest for an Iron Legend.
Fuji TV aired a new version of the show, titled Iron Chef (アイアンシェフ, Aian Shefu), premiering on October 26, 2012.

Title: Prince (musician)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prince_(musician)
Excerpt: Prince Rogers Nelson (June 7, 1958 – April 21, 2016) was an American singer, songwriter, musician, dancer, actor, and filmmaker. Often credited as one of the greatest musicians of his generation, he pioneered the Minneapolis sound and was influential in the evolution of various other genres. With estimated sales exceeding 100 million records, Prince is one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
Born and raised in Minneapolis, Minnesota, Prince signed a record deal with Warner Bros. Records at age 18, and released his first album, For You, two years later. He achieved critical success with the albums Dirty Mind (1980), Controversy (1981), and 1999 (1982). In 1984, Prince became the first singer to simultaneously have a number-one film, album and single in the United States, with Purple Rain, its soundtrack, and "When Doves Cry". The album, recorded with his new backing band the Revolution, spent 24 consecutive weeks at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 and won the Academy Award for Best Original Song Score. He achieved further success with the release of his single "Kiss", which reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100. After disbanding the Revolution, Prince released his first solo double LP, Sign o' the Times (1987), widely considered his greatest work and one of the greatest albums of all time.
In 1993, in the midst of a contractual dispute with Warner Bros., Prince changed his stage name to the unpronounceable symbol , known to fans as the "Love Symbol". Prince was often referred to as the Artist Formerly Known as Prince (TAFKAP), or simply the Artist. After signing a contract with Arista Records in 1999, Prince reverted to his original name in 2000 and continued releasing albums, including the double Grammy Award-winning Musicology (2004). He released 39 albums during his life, while still having a vast array of unreleased material. On April 21, 2016, at the age of 57, Prince died at his Paisley Park home and recording studio in Chanhassen, Minnesota, after accidentally overdosing on counterfeit hydrocodone/paracetamol pills which were laced with fentanyl.
Prince's awards include the Grammy President's Merit Award, the American Music Awards for Achievement and of Merit, the Billboard Icon Award, an Academy Award, and a Golden Globe Award. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004, the Rhythm and Blues Music Hall of Fame in 2016, the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2024, and twice into the Black Music & Entertainment Walk of Fame in 2022.

Title: List of YouTubers
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_YouTubers
Excerpt: YouTubers are people mostly known for their work on the video sharing platform YouTube. The following is a list of YouTubers for whom Wikipedia has articles either under their own name or their YouTube channel name. This list excludes people who, despite having a YouTube presence, are primarily known for their work elsewhere.

Title: The Masked Singer (American TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Masked_Singer_(American_TV_series)
Excerpt: The Masked Singer (abbreviated as TMS) is an American reality singing competition television series that premiered on Fox on January 2, 2019. It is part of the Masked Singer franchise that originated from the South Korean version of the show King of Mask Singer, which features celebrities singing songs while wearing head-to-toe costumes and face masks concealing their identities. Hosted by Nick Cannon, the program employs panelists who guess the celebrities' identities by interpreting clues provided to them throughout each season. Ken Jeong, Jenny McCarthy Wahlberg, Rita Ora, Robin Thicke, and previously Nicole Scherzinger appear in each episode and vote alongside an audience for their favorite singer after all performances have concluded. The first least popular is eliminated, taking off their mask to reveal their identity.
To prevent their identities from being revealed before each pre-recorded episode is broadcast, the program makes extensive use of code names, disguises, non-disclosure agreements, and a team of security guards. While television critics have had mixed reviews for the series and particularly negative opinions of its panelists, the costumes have attracted praise. Inspired by haute couture, they were designed in the first six seasons by Marina Toybina, who won a Costume Designers Guild Award and two Creative Arts Emmy Awards. Other production staff won or received nominations for various labor union awards, and the show has won or been nominated for awards presented by the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences, Critics Choice Association, and Hollywood Critics Association.
The first five seasons received the highest Nielsen ratings for a non-sports program in the key demographic of adults 18–49. Two spin-offs—an aftershow and a dance version, The Masked Dancer—followed as a result. The growth of the Masked Singer franchise has been credited to the show's success, as has an interest in adapting similar South Korean reality television series and other television formats centered on costumes. Media and merchandise associated with the series includes a podcast, clothing, accessories, NFTs, and a stage show.
The show's fourteenth season aired January–April 2026. In May 2026, the show was renewed for a fifteenth season.

Title: List of people from Huntington, West Virginia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_people_from_Huntington,_West_Virginia
Excerpt: This is a list of people who were born in, lived in, or are closely associated with the city of Huntington, West Virginia, also known as Huntingtonians.