Title: FIFA World Cup
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFA_World_Cup
Excerpt: %5B%5BWikipedia%3ATemplates+for+discussion%2FLog%2F2025+December+5%23Template%3ASeason+sidebar%5D%5D{{{CRITERION}}}
The FIFA World Cup is an international association football competition among the senior men's national teams of the members of the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), the sport's global governing body. The tournament has been held every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, with the exception of 1942 and 1946 during and shortly after World War II. The reigning champion is Spain, who won their second title at the 23rd edition of the competition, the 2026 World Cup, by defeating the holders, Argentina.
The World Cup is globally regarded as the most prestigious association football competition, as well as the most widely viewed and followed sporting and cultural event in the world. The viewership of the 2018 World Cup was estimated to be 3.57 billion, close to half of the global population, while the engagement with the 2022 World Cup was estimated to be 5 billion, with about 1.5 billion people watching the final match.
The contest starts with the qualification phase organized by the respective regional confederations, which takes place over the preceding three years to determine which teams qualify for the tournament phase. In the tournament phase, 48 teams (as of the 2026 World Cup) compete for the title at venues within the host nation(s) over the course of about a month, initially in groups and then in a series of knockout rounds that culminate in the final to determine the overall winner. The host nation(s) automatically qualify for the group stage of the tournament. Nineteen countries have hosted the event, sometimes co-hosting with other nations.
As of the 2026 World Cup, 23 tournaments have been held since the event's inception in 1930, and a total of 84 national teams have competed. The trophy has been won by eight national teams. With five wins, Brazil are the only team to have played in every tournament. The other World Cup winners are Germany and Italy, with four titles each; Argentina, with three titles; France, Spain, and inaugural winner Uruguay, each with two titles; and England with one title.

Title: 1974 FIFA World Cup
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1974_FIFA_World_Cup
Excerpt: The 1974 FIFA World Cup was the tenth edition of the FIFA World Cup, the quadrennial football tournament for men's senior national teams, and was played in West Germany between 13 June and 7 July. The tournament marked the first time that the current trophy, the FIFA World Cup Trophy, created by the Italian sculptor Silvio Gazzaniga, was awarded. The previous trophy, the Jules Rimet Trophy, had been won for the third time by Brazil in 1970 and awarded permanently to the Brazilians.
West Germany won the title, beating the Netherlands 2–1 in the final at the Olympiastadion in Munich. This was the second title for West Germany, who had also won in 1954. The teams of Australia, East Germany, Haiti and Zaire made their first appearances at the final stage, and East Germany making their only appearance before Germany was reunified in 1990. Brazil, the defending champions, were eliminated in the second round by the Netherlands, and lost the match for third place to Poland.
Poland's Grzegorz Lato led the tournament in scoring seven goals. Gerd Müller's goal in the final was the 14th in his career of two World Cups, beating Just Fontaine's record of 13, in his single World Cup in 1958. Müller's record was surpassed in 2006 by Ronaldo's 15 from three World Cups.
Günter Netzer, who came on as a substitute for West Germany during the defeat by the East Germans, was playing for Real Madrid at the time; this was the first time that a World Cup winner had played for a club outside his home country. This is the most recent of four World Cup tournaments to date with no matches needing extra time. The others are the 1930, 1950, and 1962 tournaments.

Title: List of FIFA World Cup hosts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_FIFA_World_Cup_hosts
Excerpt: Nineteen countries have hosted the FIFA World Cup in the competition's twenty-three tournaments since the inaugural World Cup in 1930. FIFA at first awarded hosting to countries at meetings of its congress. The choice of location was controversial in the earliest tournaments, given the three-week boat journey between South America and Europe, the two centers of strength in football at the time.
The decision to hold the first cup in Uruguay, for example, led to only four European nations competing. The next two World Cups were held in Europe. The decision to hold the second of these, the 1938 FIFA World Cup, in France was controversial, as the South American countries had been led to understand that the World Cup would alternate between the two continents. Argentina and Uruguay thus boycotted the tournament. The first tournament following World War II, held in Brazil in 1950, had three teams withdraw because of financial problems or disagreements with the organisation.
In order to avoid any future boycotts or controversy, FIFA stuck to a pattern of alternation between the Americas and Europe, which continued until the 2002 FIFA World Cup in Japan and South Korea, the first to be held in Asia. The system evolved so that the host country is now chosen in a vote by FIFA's Congress. This is done under an exhaustive ballot system. The decision is currently made roughly seven years in advance of the tournament, though the hosts for the 2030 tournament were chosen at the same time as those for the 2034 tournament. The longest time between host selection and tournament was for the 1982 FIFA World Cup, which was awarded to Spain in 1966.
Only Mexico (three times), Italy, the United States, France, Germany (West Germany until shortly after the 1990 World Cup) and Brazil have hosted the event at least twice. Mexico City's Estadio Azteca and Rio de Janeiro's Maracanã are the only venues to have hosted two FIFA World Cup finals. 
The 2002 FIFA World Cup was the first with more than one host. The 2026 FIFA World Cup was the first to be hosted by more than two countries. To mark the 100th anniversary of the tournament in 2030, there will be three host countries (Morocco, Portugal, and Spain), with three additional countries (Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay) hosting celebratory centenary matches.
Uruguay in 1930, Italy in 1934, England in 1966, West Germany in 1974, Argentina in 1978 and France in 1998 are the only nations to win the World Cup as hosts.

Title: 1974 FIFA World Cup final
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1974_FIFA_World_Cup_final
Excerpt: The final match of the 1974 FIFA World Cup, the tenth edition of FIFA's competition for national football teams, was played at Olympiastadion in Munich, West Germany, on 7 July 1974, and was contested by the Netherlands and West Germany. The tournament comprised host West Germany, defending champions Brazil, and 14 other teams who emerged from the qualification phase, organized by the six FIFA confederations. The 16 teams competed in the first group stage, from which 8 teams qualified for the second group stage. En route to the final, the Netherlands finished atop Group 3, with two wins and one draw, before defeating Argentina, East Germany, and Brazil in Group A. West Germany finished second in Group 1, after which they beat Yugoslavia, Sweden, and Poland in Group B.
The Netherlands opened the scoring via a Johan Neeskens penalty in the second minute, only for Paul Breitner to equalise with another penalty in the 25th minute before Gerd Müller scored the winning goal in the 43rd minute, claiming West Germany's second FIFA World Cup title.
Five German players (Sepp Maier, Franz Beckenbauer, Wolfgang Overath, Jürgen Grabowski and Horst-Dieter Höttges) became the first in history to have won gold, silver and bronze medals at the FIFA World Cup.

Title: Australia at the FIFA World Cup
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Australia_at_the_FIFA_World_Cup
Excerpt: This article summarises the results and overall performances of Australia at the FIFA World Cup.
Australia’s men’s team has qualified for the FIFA World Cup finals on seven occasions: 1974, 2006, 2010, 2014, 2018, 2022 and 2026. They have also attempted to qualify for the FIFA World Cup 15 times, with their first attempt being in 1966 when they lost to North Korea.
In Australia's first appearance in 1974, representing OFC, a team made up entirely of amateurs secured a scoreless draw against Chile, though they eventually departed from the tournament without a goal to show for their inaugural appearance. Australia made up for lost time at Germany 2006 and qualified for the Round of 16 before narrowly falling to eventual champions Italy. The German theme continued at South Africa 2010 although this time Australia, now representing the AFC, suffered a 4–0 loss against the European giants in a scoreline which ultimately scuppered their progress. A ten-man 1–1 draw against Ghana and a 2–1 win against Serbia saw Australia eliminated on goal difference, three goals off the Africans. Australia were to lose all three games in a tough group at Brazil 2014. In Russia 2018, it took a late own-goal for the eventual champions France to beat them, and a draw with Denmark gave them a chance depending on other results: but a loss to Peru in the final game, and Denmark's draw with France (which would have ended their chances even with a victory) put them out in the group stages. In the Qatar 2022 edition, Australia made it to the last 16 for only the second time - once again losing to France, but scoring victories over Denmark and Tunisia, before falling 2–1 to Argentina, which, like what happened to 2006 Italy, Argentina would eventually claim the World Cup title in 2022. In the jointly hosted 2026 World Cup in North America, Australia made it to the newly introduced round of 32 where they were knocked out by Egypt 4–2 on penalties after drawing 1–1 through extra time. Both Australia's goals in the knockout stages, in 2022 and 2026 have been own goals.