Title: Splinter (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Splinter_(Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles)
Excerpt: Splinter, often referred to as Master Splinter or Sensei by his students/sons, is a fictional character from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles comics and all related media. A mutant rat, he is the grave and stoic sage of the Turtles, their ninjutsu and martial arts instructor, and their adoptive father.
The character was originally a parody of the Marvel Comics character Stick.

Title: Gal Gadot
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gal_Gadot
Excerpt: Gal Gadot (Hebrew: גל גדות, pronounced [ˈɡal ɡaˈdot]; born 30 April 1985) is an Israeli actress. She gained recognition for portraying Wonder Woman in the DC Extended Universe films (2016–2023). In 2018, Gadot was named one of Time's 100 most influential people in the world and ranked by Forbes as the tenth–highest-paid actress, later rising to third-highest in 2020. In 2025, she became the first Israeli actor to receive a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Gadot grew up in Rosh HaAyin and first gained attention locally after winning Miss Israel 2004, followed by two years of mandatory service in the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) as a combat trainer. During this time, she participated in a Maxim photo shoot that boosted her public profile, leading her to begin modeling and endorsing various brands. Shortly after, she made her television debut in the Israeli drama Bubot in 2008, followed by her film debut in a supporting role as Gisele Yashar in Fast & Furious (2009), reprising it in multiple sequels (2011–2023). She also appeared on Israeli television in the second season of Asfur (2010–2012) and later in Kathmandu (2012).
Gadot first portrayed Wonder Woman in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016). The success of the film led to her starring in Wonder Woman (2017), which became a major box office hit. She reprised the role again in Justice League (2017) and Wonder Woman 1984 (2020), the latter of which she co-produced. Since then, she has starred in Red Notice (2021), Death on the Nile (2022), and Heart of Stone (2023), which she co-produced. In 2025 she portrayed the Evil Queen in Snow White and Gemma Donati in In the Hand of Dante.
Beyond acting, Gadot and her husband have co-founded a film production company, launched a food brand, and invested in Israeli startups. Gadot is widely celebrated in Israel as a national icon and ambassador and has been honored by various Jewish and Zionist organizations for her effect on Israel's image, including the Israeli-American Council (IAC), Anti-Defamation League (ADL), Jerusalem Film Festival, and Hadassah. She has also been awarded a Genesis Prize. Her support for the Israeli military and for hostages held in the Gaza Strip has drawn criticism from Palestinian nationalists, as well as from some pro-Israeli nationalists who argue she has not shown strong support.

Title: TMNT (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TMNT_(film)
Excerpt: TMNT (abbreviated from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles) is a 2007 animated superhero film written and directed by Kevin Munroe in his feature directorial debut and based on the characters created by Peter Laird and Kevin Eastman. The first animated film in the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film series, it features the voices of Chris Evans, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Mako, Kevin Smith, Patrick Stewart, and Ziyi Zhang with narration by Laurence Fishburne. In the film, after having grown apart following the final defeat of their arch-enemy, the Shredder, the four Turtles — Leonardo, Raphael, Donatello, and Michelangelo (voiced respectively by James Arnold Taylor, Nolan North, Mitchell Whitfield, and Mikey Kelley) — are set to reunite and overcome their faults to save the world from evil ancient creatures.
Development and pre-production for TMNT began in June 2005 at Imagi's Los Angeles facility and the animation was produced in Hong Kong, followed by post-production in Hollywood. Munroe chose to produce the film in CGI animation as opposed to live-action like the prior Turtles films, in an effort to make it easier for audiences to suspend their disbelief. When writing the film, Munroe wanted to divert away from the lighthearted elements of the franchise and put a heavier emphasis on the darker tone of the original comics. The animators that worked on the fight sequences were inspired by Hong Kong action films.
TMNT premiered at the Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles on March 17, 2007, and was released theatrically in the United States on March 23, by Warner Bros. Pictures. It was released in Hong Kong on March 29 by Golden Scene, and internationally distributed by The Weinstein Company. The film received mixed reviews from critics, but was a small commercial success, grossing $95.8 million worldwide against a $34 million production budget. Planned sequels were cancelled after Nickelodeon acquired the franchise in 2009, rebooting the film series with a live-action film in 2014.

Title: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles in film
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles_in_film
Excerpt: The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, a superhero team created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird, have appeared in seven theatrical feature-length films since their debut. The first film was released in 1990, at the height of the franchise's popularity. Despite mixed reviews from critics, it was a commercial success that garnered two direct sequels, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze in 1991 and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III in 1993, both of which were modest successes.  An animated film titled TMNT was released in 2007.
Following the purchase of the Turtles franchise by Viacom in 2009, Paramount Pictures gained the exclusive theatrical film rights. The studio's first film which served as a reboot of the series was released in 2014. A sequel, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows, was released in 2016 and was the first film in the franchise to be considered financially unsuccessful. An animated reboot film, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem was released in 2023. The seven films have grossed $1.3 billion worldwide.

Title: The Legend of Korra
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Legend_of_Korra
Excerpt: The Legend of Korra (abbreviated as TLOK and also known as Avatar: The Legend of Korra or more rarely simply as Korra) is an American animated fantasy action drama television series created by Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko for Nickelodeon. It is a sequel to their previous series Avatar: The Last Airbender (2005–2008), and ran for 52 episodes ("chapters") across four seasons ("books") from April 14, 2012, to December 19, 2014. It has since continued as a comic book series.
Like its predecessor, the series is set in a fictional universe where certain people can telekinetically manipulate, or "bend", one of the four elements: water, earth, fire, or air. Only one individual, the "Avatar", can bend all four elements, and is responsible for maintaining balance in the world. The series follows Avatar Korra, the successor and reincarnation of Aang from the previous series, as she faces political and spiritual unrest in a modernizing world.
The main characters are voiced by Janet Varney, Seychelle Gabriel, David Faustino, P. J. Byrne, J. K. Simmons and Mindy Sterling, and supporting voice actors include Aubrey Plaza, John Michael Higgins, Kiernan Shipka, Lisa Edelstein, Steve Blum, Eva Marie Saint, Henry Rollins, Anne Heche, and Zelda Williams. Some of the people who worked on Avatar: The Last Airbender (including designer Joaquim Dos Santos, writers Joshua Hamilton and Tim Hedrick, composer Jeremy Zuckerman and sound designer Benjamin Wynn) returned to work on The Legend of Korra.
The Legend of Korra has received critical acclaim, with praise for its writing and production values, and has been nominated for and won awards such as the Annie Awards, a Daytime Emmy Award, and a Gracie Award. The series was also praised for addressing sociopolitical issues such as social unrest and terrorism, as well as for going beyond the established boundaries of youth entertainment with respect to issues of race, gender, and sexual orientation. The series' final scene, intended to depict the beginning of a same-sex romance between Korra and Asami Sato, was unprecedented at the time and has been credited with paving the way for LGBT representation in children's television.