Title: Model car
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model_car
Excerpt: A model car, or toy car, is a miniature representation of an automobile. Other miniature motor vehicles, such as trucks, buses, and ATVs, etc. are often included in this general category.
The model car kit building hobby became popular through the 1950s, while the collecting of miniatures by adults started to gain momentum around 1970. Precision-detailed miniatures made specifically for adults have been a significant part of the market since the mid-1980s.
The scope of the vehicles involved in the hobby, according to Louis Heilbroner Hertz author of The Complete Book of Building and Collecting Model Automobiles, encompasses "ordinary or stock automobiles, racing cars ([...]), buses, trucks, specialized service vehicles (especially fire engines), military vehicles, including such equipment as self-propelled gun carriers and mobile rocket launchers; construction equipment, including bulldozers and road rollers, tractors and related farm equipment; mobile showmen's engines, customized automobiles, hot rods, dragsters, the recently popular so-called 'funny cars', early self-propelled road carriages, and so on."

Title: Kei car
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kei_car
Excerpt: Kei car, short for kei-jidōsha (軽自動車 pronounced [keːdʑidoːɕa] "light automobile"), is a class of ultra-compact cars unique to the Japanese domestic market, and is the smallest category of expressway-legal motor vehicles in Japan. Other than passenger cars, Japanese automakers also make microvans and kei trucks within this legal category.
The kei category was created by the Japanese government in 1949, to stimulate both car ownership and growth of Japan's car industry. The regulations were revised multiple times until 1998, but since October 1998, the law consistently specifies a maximum vehicle length of 3.4 m (11.2 ft), width of 1.48 m (4 ft 10.3 in), height under 2.0 m (6 ft 6.7 in), and engine displacement under 660 cc (40.3 cu in). A "gentleman's agreement" between Japanese automakers and lawmakers also set a maximum power output of 64 PS (63 hp; 47 kW). With restricted dimensions and engine specifications, kei car owners enjoy lower tax and vehicle insurance rates, leading to a lower overall ownership cost. In most rural areas, they are also exempt from the mandatory shako shōmeisho (車庫証明書), which are certificates of parking space ownership that Japanese car buyers are required to provide before they are allowed to legally buy a motor vehicle, as public street parking is generally restricted in Japan.
Kei cars are favored by both the elderly and younger demographics, including young families, due to their affordability and ease of use. As a result, kei cars have been very successful in Japan since the 1960s, consisting of over one-third of domestic new car sales in fiscal year 2016, after dropping from a record 40 percent market share in 2013. To reduce their market dominance, Japan increased taxes on the category by 50% in 2014. Despite this, in 2018, seven of the ten top-selling models were kei cars, including high-roof models with sliding doors such as the Honda N-Box, Suzuki Spacia, Nissan Dayz, and Daihatsu Tanto.
Nearly all kei cars have been designed and manufactured domestically, but some exceptions exist. A version of the European-built Smart Fortwo was briefly imported and officially classified as a kei car with modifications to reduce its width. In addition, the British Caterham 7 160 and the Polski Fiat 126p (after 1990) also received such classification. In mid-2026, Chinese EV manufacturer BYD also introduced the battery-electric Racco specifically designed for the Japanese market. For exports, kei cars are generally too small and specialized to be profitable in markets outside Japan, but notable exceptions exist; for instance, the Suzuki Alto and Daihatsu Cuore have been exported consistently since around 1980. The export version of the Suzuki Jimny, with upgrades to increase its width and engine power, has also gained significant popularity outside Japan.

Title: This Year's Model
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/This_Year%27s_Model
Excerpt: This Year's Model is the second studio album by the English singer-songwriter Elvis Costello, released on 17 March 1978 through Radar Records. After being backed by Clover for his debut album My Aim Is True (1977), Costello formed the Attractions—keyboardist Steve Nieve, bassist Bruce Thomas and drummer Pete Thomas (no relation)—as his permanent backing band. Recording sessions took place at London's Eden Studios in eleven days between late 1977 and early 1978. Nick Lowe returned as producer, and Roger Béchirian acted as engineer. Most of the songs were written prior to the sessions, and debuted live during the latter half of 1977.
Embracing new wave, power pop and punk rock, the songs draw from bands such as the Rolling Stones and the Beatles. The lyrics explore subjects such as technologies of mass control and failing relationships, but in a manner that some reviewers found misogynistic. Echoing the lyrics of some of the tracks, the cover artwork, designed by the English graphic artist Barney Bubbles, shows Costello behind a camera on a tripod, emphasising his role as an observer.
The accompanying singles "(I Don't Want to Go to) Chelsea" and "Pump It Up" were commercially successful and the album reached number four on the UK Albums Chart. The American LP was released in May 1978 through Columbia Records, substituting "(I Don't Want to Go to) Chelsea" and "Night Rally" for "Radio Radio". It reached number 30 on Billboard's Top LPs & Tape chart. This Year's Model also received critical acclaim; reviewers highlighted strong songwriting and performances, while also admiring Costello and the band as artists. The album appeared on year-end lists in both the UK and the US.
In later decades, This Year's Model has been acclaimed as one of Costello's best works, some critics commenting on its influence on punk and new wave. It has appeared on several lists of the greatest albums of all time and has been reissued multiple times with bonus tracks. In 2021, Costello spearheaded a new version of the album titled Spanish Model, which featured songs from This Year's Model sung in Spanish by Latin artists over the Attractions' original backing tracks. It received favourable reviews and charted on several Billboard charts.

Title: Lincoln Town Car
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lincoln_Town_Car
Excerpt: The Lincoln Town Car is a model line of full-size luxury sedans that was marketed and produced by the Lincoln division of the American automaker Ford Motor Company. Deriving its name from a limousine body style, Lincoln marketed the Town Car from 1981 to 2011, with the nameplate previously serving as the flagship trim of the Lincoln Continental. Produced across three generations for thirty model years, the Town Car was marketed directly against luxury sedans from Cadillac and Chrysler.
Marketed nearly exclusively as a four-door sedan (a two-door sedan was offered for 1981 only), many examples of the Town Car were used for fleet and livery (limousine) service. From 1983 to its 2011 discontinuation, the Town Car was the longest car produced by Ford worldwide, becoming the longest mass-production car sold in North America from 1997 to 2011. While not a direct successor of the Town Car, the Lincoln MKS would become the longest American sedan until 2016 (overtaken by the Cadillac CT6).
From 1980 until 2007, the Lincoln Town Car was assembled in Wixom, Michigan (Wixom Assembly) alongside the Lincoln Continental, LS, and Mark VI, VII, and VIII. After Wixom's closure, Town Car production moved to Southwold, Ontario (St. Thomas Assembly) alongside the similar Ford Crown Victoria and the Mercury Grand Marquis. The final Lincoln Town Car was produced on August 29, 2011.
Within the Lincoln model line, the Town Car was not directly replaced; the nameplate was used from 2012 to 2019 to denote livery/limousine/hearse variants of the Lincoln MKT. For 2017, the revived Continental replaced the MKS, closely matching the Town Car in wheelbase and width.

Title: Pony car
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pony_car
Excerpt: Pony car is an American car classification for affordable, compact, highly styled coupés or convertibles with a "sporty" or performance-oriented image. Common characteristics include rear-wheel drive, a long hood, a short deck, bucket seats, room for four, a wide range of options to individualize each car and use of mass-produced parts shared with other models. The popularity of pony cars is largely due to the launch of the Ford Mustang in 1964, which created the niche and term.
There is much debate among enthusiasts about the exact definition of a pony car, and what differentiates the vehicle from a muscle car. The general consensus is that pony cars are smaller and more homogeneous in their form than muscle cars. A few intermediate-size vehicles, such as the Dodge Challenger, may be considered to belong to both categories.