Title: Round Midnight (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Round_Midnight_(film)
Excerpt: Round Midnight is a 1986 American musical drama film directed by Bertrand Tavernier and written by Tavernier and David Rayfiel. It stars Dexter Gordon, with a soundtrack by Herbie Hancock. The title comes from Thelonious Monk's 1943 composition "'Round Midnight", which is featured in this film in a Hancock arrangement.
The protagonist jazzman, Dale Turner, is based on a composite of real-life jazz legends Lester Young (tenor sax) and Bud Powell (piano). While the film is fictionalized, it is drawn directly from the memoir/biography Dance of the Infidels written by French author Francis Paudras, who had befriended Powell during his Paris expatriate days and on whom the character Francis was based.
Gordon was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor and won a Grammy for the film's soundtrack entitled The Other Side of Round Midnight in the category for Best Instrumental Jazz Performance, Soloist. Hancock won the Academy Award for Best Original Score. The soundtrack was released in two parts: Round Midnight and The Other Side of Round Midnight.

Title: 13 (2010 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/13_(2010_film)
Excerpt: 13 is a 2010 American psychological crime thriller film directed by Géla Babluani (who also directed the original), stars Sam Riley, Ray Winstone, 50 Cent, Mickey Rourke and Jason Statham. It is a remake of the 2005 Georgian-French film 13 Tzameti.

Title: Another Round
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Another_Round
Excerpt: Another Round (Danish: Druk, lit. 'Binge drinking') is a 2020 black comedy-drama film directed by Thomas Vinterberg, co-written with Tobias Lindholm. Starring Mads Mikkelsen, Thomas Bo Larsen, Magnus Millang, and Lars Ranthe, the film follows four high school teachers who experiment with maintaining a constant level of alcohol in their blood to boost creativity and confidence.
Premiering at the 2020 Toronto International Film Festival, the film won the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film and multiple other accolades. The film is dedicated to Vinterberg's daughter, Ida, who died during production.

Title: Spin Me Round
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spin_Me_Round
Excerpt: Spin Me Round is a 2022 American dark comedy film co-written by Jeff Baena and Alison Brie and directed by Baena, the final film he directed before his death in 2025. It premiered at the South by Southwest festival on March 12, 2022. It was released in the United States on August 19, 2022, by IFC Films in select theaters and by AMC+ on video on demand.

Title: Mortal Kombat II (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mortal_Kombat_II_(film)
Excerpt: Mortal Kombat II is a 2026 American martial arts high fantasy film based on the video-game series created by Ed Boon and John Tobias. It is the sequel to Mortal Kombat (2021) and is the fourth installment in the Mortal Kombat film series. Directed by Simon McQuoid and written by Jeremy Slater, it stars returning cast members Jessica McNamee, Josh Lawson, Ludi Lin, Mehcad Brooks, Lewis Tan, Max Huang, Damon Herriman (in a different role), Chin Han, Tadanobu Asano, Joe Taslim, and Hiroyuki Sanada, with Karl Urban, Adeline Rudolph, Martyn Ford, and Tati Gabrielle joining the cast. The film follows Johnny Cage, a martial arts actor who is recruited by the thunder god Raiden and Sonya Blade to join his fellow Earthrealm fighters in an interdimensional tournament against the Outworld warriors and stop the tyrannical emperor Shao Kahn, with the help of Edenian princess Kitana.
Following the release of Mortal Kombat in April 2021, producer Todd Garner, writer Greg Russo, and director McQuoid began conversations about the future of the franchise, including standalone films focused on Johnny Cage and Bi-Han / Sub-Zero, and a sequel to the 2021 film. By 2022, New Line Cinema green-lit the sequel, with Slater penning the screenplay and McQuoid returning to direct. Filming began in June 2023 in Australia, was paused in mid-July due to the SAG-AFTRA strike, resumed in mid-November, and concluded in late January 2024. 
Mortal Kombat II premiered at the TCL Chinese Theatre on April 27, 2026, and was theatrically released in the United States on May 8, 2026, by Warner Bros. Pictures. The film grossed $129 million worldwide on an $80 million production budget and, while it was rated better than its predecessor, received mixed reviews from critics.