Title: William F. Buckley Jr.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_F._Buckley_Jr.
Excerpt: William Frank Buckley Jr. (born William Francis Buckley; November 24, 1925 – February 27, 2008) was an American conservative writer, public intellectual, political commentator, and novelist.
Born in New York City, Buckley spoke Spanish as his first language before learning French and then English as a child. He served stateside in the United States Army during World War II. After the war, he attended Yale University, where he engaged in debate and conservative political commentary; he graduated from Yale with honors in 1950. He then worked at the Central Intelligence Agency for two years.
In 1955, Buckley founded National Review, a magazine that stimulated the growth and development of the conservative movement in the United States. In addition to editorials in National Review, Buckley wrote God and Man at Yale (1951) and more than 50 other books on diverse topics including writing, speaking, history, politics, and sailing. His works include a series of novels featuring fictitious CIA officer Blackford Oakes and a nationally syndicated newspaper column.
In 1965, Buckley ran for mayor of New York City on the Conservative Party line, finishing third. From 1966 to 1999, he hosted 1,429 episodes of the public affairs television show Firing Line, the longest-running public affairs show with a single host in U.S. television history; through his work on the show, he became known for his Northeastern elite accent, articulate discourse, and wide vocabulary.
Buckley is widely considered one of the most influential figures in the conservative movement in the United States.

Title: List of people from Illinois
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_people_from_Illinois
Excerpt: This is a list of notable individuals who come from the state of Illinois, a state within the larger United States of America.

Title: Frederick W. Smith
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederick_W._Smith
Excerpt: Frederick Wallace Smith (August 11, 1944 – June 21, 2025) was an American business magnate and investor. He was the founder and chairman of FedEx Corporation, the world's largest express transportation company. Smith stepped down as CEO in June 2022 and was succeeded by Raj Subramaniam. Considered one of the most successful transportation entrepreneurs in the world, Smith had an estimated net worth of $5.3 billion at the time of his death according to Forbes.

Title: List of people from Mississippi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_people_from_Mississippi
Excerpt: This list contains people who were born or lived in the U.S. state of Mississippi.

Title: Joe Gibbs Racing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Gibbs_Racing
Excerpt: Joe Gibbs Racing (JGR) is an American professional stock car racing organization founded by Pro Football Hall of Fame coach Joe Gibbs. His son, J. D. Gibbs, ran the team with him until his death in 2019. Founded in Huntersville, North Carolina, in 1992, JGR has won five Cup Series championships, four O'Reilly Auto Parts Series championships and one ARCA Series championship.
For the team's first 16 seasons, Joe Gibbs Racing ran cars from General Motors, winning three championships: two in Pontiac Grand Prixs and one in a Chevrolet Monte Carlo. The team switched to Toyota beginning in the 2008 season, and in 2015 brought Toyota their first Premier series championship with Kyle Busch's victory.
The team fields four full-time entries in the NASCAR Cup Series: the No. 11 Toyota Camry for Denny Hamlin, the No. 19 Camry for Chase Briscoe, the No. 20 Camry for Christopher Bell, and the No. 54 Camry for Ty Gibbs. In the O'Reilly Auto Parts Series, the team fields four full-time entries: the No. 18 Toyota GR Supra for William Sawalich, the No. 19 Supra for Brent Crews and other drivers, the No. 20 Supra for Brandon Jones, and the No. 54 Supra for Taylor Gray.
The team has a driver development program that groomed future Cup winners Joey Logano and Aric Almirola and won one championship in the Camping World East Series (now known as the ARCA Menards East Series) with Logano. The team won the 2021 ARCA Menards Series championship with Ty Gibbs. The organization teamed up with former NFL player Reggie White in 2004 to create a diversity program, fielding drivers such as Almirola, Marc Davis, and Bubba Wallace, and forming the basis for NASCAR's Drive for Diversity program.
JGR formed a technical alliance with 23XI Racing in 2021 and sold minority stakes to Harris Blitzer Sports & Entertainment (HBSE) and Arctos Partners in 2023.