Title: The Perfect Storm (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Perfect_Storm_(film)
Excerpt: The Perfect Storm is a 2000 American disaster drama film directed by Wolfgang Petersen and based on the 1997 creative non-fiction book of the same name by Sebastian Junger. The film was adapted by William D. Wittliff, with an uncredited rewrite by Bo Goldman, and tells the story of Andrea Gail, a commercial fishing vessel that was lost at sea with all hands after being caught in the Perfect Storm of 1991. The film stars George Clooney, Mark Wahlberg, Diane Lane, William Fichtner, Karen Allen, Bob Gunton, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, and John C. Reilly.
The Perfect Storm was released on June 30, 2000, by Warner Bros. Pictures. The film received mixed reviews. It grossed $328 million worldwide, becoming the eighth-highest-grossing film of 2000.

Title: The Perfect Match (1995 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Perfect_Match_(1995_film)
Excerpt: The Perfect Match is a British comedy-drama television film written by Mike Bullen and directed by Nick Hurran. It stars Saskia Reeves and Con O'Neill as Bridget and Phil, a couple whose marriage proposal is broadcast to football fans. It was first broadcast on the ITV network on 6 September 1995. The programme was not well received by critics but it was enough of a success for producers Granada Television to ask Bullen for further ideas, leading to the commissioning of the long-running television series Cold Feet.

Title: Pitch Perfect 3
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pitch_Perfect_3
Excerpt: Pitch Perfect 3 is a 2017 American musical comedy film directed by Trish Sie and written by Kay Cannon and Mike White. It is the sequel to Pitch Perfect 2 (2015), and the third film in the Pitch Perfect trilogy. The film features Anna Kendrick, Rebel Wilson, Hailee Steinfeld, Brittany Snow, Anna Camp, Hana Mae Lee, Ester Dean, Chrissie Fit, Alexis Knapp, Kelly Jakle, Shelley Regner, John Michael Higgins, and Elizabeth Banks—all reprising their roles from previous films—as well as John Lithgow, DJ Khaled, Ruby Rose, Matt Lanter, and Guy Burnet. The plot follows the a cappella group the Bellas, who have graduated from college and are reuniting for one final performance together as part of a USO tour.
Principal photography for Pitch Perfect 3 began in January 2017 in Atlanta, Georgia, and ended that April. The film was released in the United States by Universal Pictures on December 22, 2017, and received mixed reviews from critics, who deemed it inferior to its predecessors. Nevertheless, it grossed $185 million worldwide against its $45 million budget. It became the second-highest grossing musical comedy film of all time, behind Pitch Perfect 2.

Title: The Perfect Match (2016 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Perfect_Match_(2016_film)
Excerpt: The Perfect Match is a 2016 American romantic comedy film directed by Bille Woodruff. The film was written by Dana Verde, Brandon Broussard and Gary Hardwick and stars Terrence J, Cassie Ventura, Lauren London and Paula Patton. It was released on March 11, 2016.

Title: Perfect Days
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perfect_Days
Excerpt: Perfect Days is a 2023 Japanese-language drama film directed by Wim Wenders from a script written by Wenders and Takuma Takasaki. A co-production between Japan and Germany, the film follows the routine life of Hirayama (Kōji Yakusho), a public toilet cleaner in Tokyo.
Perfect Days premiered on 23 May 2023 at the 76th Cannes Film Festival, where it competed for the Palme d'Or and won the Prize of the Ecumenical Jury and the Best Actor Award for Kōji Yakusho. It was nominated for the Best International Feature Film at the 96th Academy Awards, becoming the first film directed by a non-Japanese filmmaker to be nominated as the Japanese entry.