Title: Manhunter (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manhunter_(film)
Excerpt: Manhunter is a 1986 American crime thriller film written and directed by Michael Mann. Based on the 1981 novel Red Dragon by Thomas Harris, the film stars William Petersen as FBI profiler Will Graham, Tom Noonan as serial killer Francis Dollarhyde, Dennis Farina as Graham's FBI superior Jack Crawford, and Brian Cox as incarcerated killer Hannibal Lecktor. The film focuses on Graham coming out of retirement to lend his talents to an investigation on Dollarhyde, a killer known as the Tooth Fairy. In doing so, he must confront the demons of his past and meet with Lecktor, who nearly killed Graham years before.
The film focuses on the forensic work carried out by the FBI to track down killers and shows the long-term effects that cases like this have on profilers such as Graham, highlighting the similarities between him and his quarry. It features heavily stylized use of color to convey this sense of duality, and the nature of the characters' similarity has been explored in academic analysis of the film. It was the first film adaptation of Red Dragon, as well as the first film adaptation of any of Harris's Hannibal Lecter novels in general.
Manhunter was released in the United States on August 15, 1986, by De Laurentiis Entertainment Group. It was considered a box-office bomb at the time of its release, making only $8.6 million in the United States, and received mixed reviews from critics. It has been reassessed and now enjoys a more favorable reception, as both the acting and the stylized visuals have been appreciated better in later years. Its resurgent popularity has seen it labelled as a cult film.

Title: B. J. Blazkowicz
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B._J._Blazkowicz
Excerpt: William Joseph "B.J." Blazkowicz (Polish pronunciation: [blasˈkɔvit͡ʂ]) is a fictional character and the protagonist of the Wolfenstein series of alternate history video games starting with 1992's Wolfenstein 3D. An American spy of Polish Jewish descent, he specializes in one-man missions behind enemy lines. In addition to fighting the regular German Army he also frequently encounters bizarre Nazi experiments concerning biomechanical technology and the occult.
He was created by John Carmack and designed by Tom Hall for Wolfenstein 3D, described as a large, muscular man with dark blond hair, blue eyes, and a strong jaw. He also appeared in other Wolfenstein games, such as Wolfenstein: The New Order, Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus  and was added to the 2017 video game Quake Champions.

Title: Shuri (Marvel Cinematic Universe)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shuri_(Marvel_Cinematic_Universe)
Excerpt: Shuri is a fictional character portrayed primarily by Letitia Wright in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) media franchise based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name, also inspired by the James Bond character Q. She is the courageous and tech-savvy younger sister of T'Challa, and the daughter of T'Chaka and Ramonda, all preceding monarchs of Wakanda. Highly intelligent and a master engineer, she is Wakanda's lead scientist and the princess of the country.
Following her father's death, Shuri assists her brother in reclaiming the Wakandan throne from their cousin N'Jadaka and then helps remove Bucky Barnes's programming. Later, she assists the Avengers by attempting to use her technology to safely remove the Mind Stone from Vision's head. However, she gets stopped by Corvus Glaive and shortly after, falls victim to the Blip. After getting restored to life, she joins the battle against an alternate Thanos. Following her brother and mother's death, she becomes the new Black Panther, defeating Namor in combat and forming an alliance with Talokan against the rest of the world.
As of 2024, the character has appeared in four films. Wright's portrayal of Shuri has been well-received.
Alternate versions from within the MCU multiverse appear in the animated series What If...? (2021), voiced by Ozioma Akagha.

Title: Atom Eve
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atom_Eve
Excerpt: Atom Eve (Samantha Eve Wilkins) is a superheroine in the Image Universe, first appearing in Invincible #2 (February 2003) by writer Robert Kirkman and artist Cory Walker. Originally dating Rex Splode before marrying Mark Grayson, Atom Eve possesses the ability to manipulate matter at a subatomic level, allowing her to alter the molecular structure of objects, including her own body. She has been featured in comic books, television series, video games, and novels.
Atom Eve's secret identity is Samantha Eve Wilkins. Initially, she was depicted as a teenage high school student at Reginald Vel Johnson High School and was raised in Chicago, Illinois, by her adoptive parents, Betsy and Adam Wilkins. She was placed in their care after her biological mother, Polly, died during childbirth, and her creator, Dr. Elias Brandyworth, was murdered.
Eve was born with superhuman powers due to an experiment conducted on her biological mother during pregnancy, granting her an innate understanding of biological and chemical sciences. Her abilities include superhuman strength, speed, agility, stamina, durability, and balance, as well as the power to manipulate matter. She can use her abilities to create shields, weapons, and objects during combat. Additionally, she constructs and repairs materials using artificial matter of her own design, which she utilizes both for fighting and travel across the city.

Title: Thaddeus Ross (Marvel Cinematic Universe)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thaddeus_Ross_(Marvel_Cinematic_Universe)
Excerpt: Thaddeus Ross is a fictional character portrayed by both William Hurt and Harrison Ford in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film franchise, based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name. He is depicted as a United States Armed Forces lieutenant general before serving as Secretary of State, and is later elected as the President of the United States. He is also the father of Betty Ross, with whom he has had a complex relationship.
Ross leads the manhunt for Bruce Banner and inadvertently helps create the Abomination. After retiring from the military and various health issues, Ross serves as Secretary of State, and presents the Avengers with the Sokovia Accords leading to their disbandment. After being revived from the Blip, Ross is elected president which puts him at odds with Sam Wilson. Ross turns into a Red Hulk after ingesting gamma-radiated pills from a revenge-driven Samuel Sterns, which leads to him destroying the White House. He later stands down as president and is incarcerated in the Raft.
Hurt portrayed Ross in The Incredible Hulk (2008), The Consultant (2011), Captain America: Civil War (2016), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), Avengers: Endgame (2019) and Black Widow (2021). After Hurt's death in 2022, Ford subsequently portrayed the character in Captain America: Brave New World (2025). Both actors received generally positive reviews for their performances and the gravitas they brought to their roles. Alternate versions of the character appear in various Disney+ animated series, voiced by both Michael Patrick McGill and Travis Willingham.