Title: Bill Clinton
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Clinton
Excerpt: William Jefferson  Clinton (né Blythe III; born August 19, 1946) is an American politician and lawyer  who served as the 42nd president of the United States from 1993 to 2001. A member of the Democratic Party, he previously served as the attorney general of Arkansas from 1977 to 1979, the governor of Arkansas from 1979 to 1981, and governor again from 1983 to 1992. His centrist Third Way political philosophy became known as Clintonism, which defined his presidency and the succeeding decades of Democratic Party into the 21st century.
Born and raised in Arkansas, Clinton graduated from Georgetown University in 1968, and later from Yale Law School, where he met his future wife, Hillary Rodham. After graduating from law school, Clinton returned to Arkansas and won election as state attorney general, followed by two non-consecutive tenures as Arkansas governor. As governor, he overhauled the state's education system and served as chairman of the National Governors Association. Running as a "New Democrat", Clinton was elected president in the 1992 election, defeating the incumbent Republican president George H. W. Bush, and the independent businessman Ross Perot. He became the first president to be born in the Baby Boomer generation and the youngest to serve two full terms.
Clinton presided over the longest American period of peacetime economic expansion at the time. He signed into law the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act and the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act but failed to pass his plan for national health care reform, and accepted a controversial compromise policy to his original plan to allow gay and lesbian servicemembers serve openly in the military. Starting in the mid-1990s, after Democrats were soundly defeated in the 1994 midterms, he began an ideological evolution as he became much more conservative in his domestic policy, advocating for and signing the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act and Republican-led financial deregulation measures, while still championing liberal policy such as the State Children's Health Insurance Program. He appointed Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer to the U.S. Supreme Court. In foreign policy, Clinton ordered U.S. military intervention in the Bosnian and Kosovo wars, eventually signing the Dayton Peace agreement. He also called for the expansion of NATO in Eastern Europe and many former Warsaw Pact members joined NATO during his presidency. Clinton's foreign policy in the Middle East saw him sign the Iraq Liberation Act which gave aid to groups against Saddam Hussein. He also participated in the Oslo I Accord and Camp David Summit to advance the Israeli–Palestinian peace process, and assisted the Northern Ireland peace process.
Clinton won re-election in the 1996 election, defeating Republican nominee Bob Dole and returning Reform Party nominee Ross Perot. In his second term, Clinton made use of permanent normal trade. Many of his second term accomplishments were overshadowed by his highly publicised affair with White House intern Monica Lewinsky, when it was revealed in early 1998 that the two had been engaging in an eighteen-month-long sexual relationship. This scandal escalated throughout the year, culminating in December when Clinton was impeached by the House of Representatives, becoming the first U.S. president to be impeached since Andrew Johnson. The two impeachment articles that the House passed were centered around perjury and Clinton using the powers of the presidency to commit obstruction of justice. In January 1999, Clinton's impeachment trial began in the Senate, where he was acquitted two months later on both charges. During the last three years of Clinton's presidency, the Congressional Budget Office reported a budget surplus—the first and only such surplus since 1969.
Clinton left office in 2001 with the joint-highest approval rating of any U.S. president. His presidency consistently ranks among the middle to upper tier in historical rankings of U.S. presidents. His personal conduct and misconduct allegations have made him the subject of substantial scrutiny. Since leaving office, Clinton has been involved in public speaking and humanitarian work. He created the Clinton Foundation to address international causes such as the prevention of HIV/AIDS and global warming. In 2009, he was named the United Nations special envoy to Haiti. After the 2010 Haiti earthquake, Clinton founded the Clinton Bush Haiti Fund with George W. Bush. He has remained active in Democratic Party politics, campaigning for his wife's 2008 and 2016 presidential campaigns. Following Jimmy Carter's death in December 2024, he is the earliest-serving living former U.S. president and the last surviving president to have served in the 20th century.

Title: James K. Polk
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_K._Polk
Excerpt: James Knox Polk (; November 2, 1795 – June 15, 1849) was the 11th president of the United States, serving from 1845 to 1849. A protégé of Andrew Jackson and a member of the Democratic Party, he was an advocate of American expansionism and Jacksonian democracy. Polk saw Texas join the Union in his first year in office; the annexation of the formerly independent republic, which had declared independence from Mexico, was one of the precipitating causes that soon led the U.S. into the Mexican–American War. The settlement of that war expanded American territory to the Pacific Ocean. During his term, the dispute with the United Kingdom over the Oregon Territory was resolved as well, creating the present U.S.-Canadian border.
After building a successful law practice in Tennessee, Polk was elected to its state legislature in 1823 and then to the United States House of Representatives in 1825, becoming a strong supporter of Jackson. Following his tenure as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, he became Speaker of the House in 1835, the only person to serve both as Speaker and U.S. president. Polk left Congress to run for governor of Tennessee, winning in 1839 but losing in 1841 and 1843. He was a dark-horse candidate in the 1844 presidential election as the Democratic Party nominee. Polk entered his party's convention as a potential nominee for vice president but emerged as a compromise to head the ticket when no presidential candidate could gain the necessary two-thirds majority. In the general election, he narrowly defeated Henry Clay of the Whig Party and pledged to serve only one term.
After a negotiation fraught with the risk of war, Polk reached a settlement with Great Britain over the disputed Oregon Country, with the territory for the most part divided along the 49th parallel. He oversaw U.S. victory in the Mexican–American War, resulting in Mexico's cession of the entirety of the American Southwest. He secured a substantial reduction of American tariff rates with the Walker tariff of 1846. The same year, he achieved his other major goal, the reestablishment of the Independent Treasury system. True to his campaign pledge to serve one term (one of the few U.S. presidents to make and keep such a pledge), Polk left office in 1849 and returned to Tennessee, where he died of cholera soon afterward.
Though he has become relatively obscure, scholars have ranked Polk in the upper tier of U.S. presidents, largely for his ability to promote and achieve the major items on his presidential agenda. At the same time, he has been criticized for leading the country into a war with Mexico that exacerbated sectional divides. A property owner who used slave labor, he kept a plantation in Mississippi and increased his slave ownership during his presidency. Polk's policy of territorial expansion saw the nation reach the Pacific coast and almost all its contiguous borders. He helped make the U.S. a nation poised to become a great power, but his policies gravely exacerbated divisions between the free and slave states, setting the stage for the American Civil War.

Title: Treaty of Paris (1783)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treaty_of_Paris_(1783)
Excerpt: The Treaty of Paris, signed by representatives of King George III of Great Britain and representatives of the United States on September 3, 1783, officially ended the War of American Independence and recognized the Thirteen Colonies, which had been part of colonial British America, to be free, sovereign, and independent unified states. It forms one treaty out of many that are collectively named the Peace of Paris (1783).
The treaty set the boundaries between British North America, later called Canada, and the United States, on lines the British labeled as "exceedingly generous", although exact boundary definitions in the far-northwest and to the south continued to be subject to some controversy. Details included fishing rights and restoration of property and prisoners of war.
This treaty and the separate peace treaties between Great Britain and the nations that supported the American cause, including France, Spain, and the Dutch Republic, are known collectively as the Peace of Paris. Only Article 1 of the treaty, which acknowledges the United States' existence as free, sovereign, and independent states, remains in force.

Title: List of Latin phrases (full)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Latin_phrases_(full)
Excerpt: This article lists direct English translations of common Latin phrases. Some of the phrases are themselves translations of Greek phrases.
This list is an automatically updated combination of the twenty lists of Latin phrases starting by a given letter.

Title: Second presidency of Donald Trump
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_presidency_of_Donald_Trump
Excerpt: Donald Trump's second and current tenure as the president of the United States began upon his inauguration as the 47th president on January 20, 2025. Trump, a Republican, previously served as the 45th president from 2017 to 2021. He lost re-election to Democratic nominee Joe Biden in 2020, and then won against Democratic nominee Kamala Harris in 2024. Trump is the second former U.S. president to return to office. Alongside Trump's second presidency, the Republican Party also currently holds simple majorities in the House of Representatives and the Senate, thereby attaining an overall federal government trifecta.
During 2025, Trump signed 225 executive orders, the most of any president in a single year since Franklin D. Roosevelt. Many of these have been or are being challenged in court. His attempts to expand presidential power and conflict with the courts have been described as a defining characteristic of his second presidency. On immigration, Trump signed the Laken Riley Act into law, attempted to restrict birthright citizenship, and ordered mass deportations of immigrants. In January 2025, Trump launched the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), with Elon Musk briefly overseeing it. DOGE was tasked with reducing federal spending and shrinking the size of the government, and it oversaw mass layoffs of civil servants, as well as closing government agencies such as the Agency for International Development. Trump also signed the One Big Beautiful Bill Act into law, which permanently extended the tax cuts introduced in the first Trump administration, while increasing the deficit by around $3 trillion by 2034. Trump has also overseen a series of tariff increases and pauses, which led to retaliatory tariffs from other countries and stock market volatility.
In international affairs, Trump has further pursued an expansionist and aggressive foreign policy, including the greater use of military force. His administration increased support for Israel in the Gaza war, struck Houthi targets in Yemen from March to May 2025 and aided Israel in the June 2025 Twelve-Day War, during which he carried out strikes on Iranian nuclear sites. In early October 2025, Trump's plan for a Gaza ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas was signed. Trump has authorized a series of strikes on suspected drug traffickers in the Caribbean Sea, the legality of which is widely disputed under both U.S. and international law, and subsequently ordered a military intervention to overthrow and capture Nicolás Maduro, the disputed president of Venezuela, alleging that the Maduro government had links to narco-terrorist networks and conspired to flood the United States with cocaine. In February 2026, he launched a major attack on Iran with Israel with the stated goal of regime change, including the assassination of the Supreme Leader of Iran Ali Khamenei, which led to the 2026 Strait of Hormuz crisis and fuel crisis. As in his first presidency, Trump initiated the withdrawal of the U.S. from the World Health Organization, the Paris Climate Accords, and UNESCO.
The Trump administration has been criticized for its targeting of political opponents and civil society. Many of his administration's actions have been found by the judiciary to be illegal and unconstitutional, and have been criticized as authoritarian and fascistic. These actions have also been seen as contributing to democratic backsliding in the country. Trump, his family, and his administration have faced unprecedented conflicts of interest, self-enrichment, and allegations of corruption. Trump is the first president with a felony conviction, having been convicted in 2024 for falsifying business records to conceal hush money payments. Having taken office at 78 years and seven months old, he is the oldest person to become U.S. president.