Title: Bas Rutten
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bas_Rutten
Excerpt: Sebastiaan Rutten (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈbɑs ˈrʏtə(n)]; born 24 February 1965) is a Dutch and American actor, former mixed martial artist, kickboxer and professional wrestler. As a kickboxer, he fought 16 times, winning the first 14 matches by knockout, 13 in the first round, and losing his final two fights, one of them against Frank Lobman for the European Muay Thai title in 1991, with Rutten losing by knockout in the first round. In MMA, he was a UFC Heavyweight Champion and a three-time King of Pancrase world champion. After his submission loss to Ken Shamrock in 1995, he finished his MMA career on a 22 fight unbeaten streak (21 wins, 1 draw). 
As a professional fighter, one of his most commonly used strikes was the liver shot (both punch and kick), and he popularized its use in MMA. He competed in Japanese professional wrestling following his Pancrase tenure. Since his retirement, he has worked as a color commentator in several martial arts organizations, including Pride and Karate Combat (KC), and has appeared in numerous television shows, movies, and video games. From 2007 to 2016, he was the co-host of Inside MMA on AXS TV. Rutten also coaches MMA and has authored several instructional materials. 
In 2008, Rutten was ranked by Inside MMA as the fourth-greatest mixed martial arts fighter of all time. In 2015, he was inducted into the UFC Hall of Fame. In 2018, he was also inducted into the International Sports Hall of Fame.

Title: Roger Gracie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roger_Gracie
Excerpt: Roger Gracie (born Roger Gracie Gomes; 26 September 1981) is a Brazilian former professional mixed martial artist, submission grappler, and 5th degree Brazilian jiu-jitsu (BJJ) practitioner and coach. As a mixed martial artist, he formerly competed in the Light Heavyweight division of ONE FC, in where he was the inaugural Light Heavyweight World Champion, a title he held until retirement. He also competed in Strikeforce, and the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). As a Brazilian jiu-jitsu practitioner and submission grappler, he held 12 major world championships across the International Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation (IBJJF), and ADCC Submission Fighting World Championship (ADCC).
The son of coral belt Mauricio Gomes and grandson of BJJ founder Carlos Gracie, Roger Gracie is one of jiu-jitsu's most decorated and accomplished athletes.
A member of both IBJJF Hall of Fame and ADCC Hall of Fame, Gracie won 10 IBJJF world championship titles across multiple weight classes, every year from 2004 to 2010, becoming the first competitor to win the open weight division 3 times. He is also a two-time European Champion, and a Pan Champion. Gracie is an ADCC Submission Fighting weight, absolute, and superfight champion, the only athlete to win gold in both his weight class and the open weight division with a 100% submission-rate. Gracie retired in 2017 after defeating then BJJ world champion Marcus Buchecha, leaving jiu-jitsu without a single submission defeat on his record.
Competing concurrently in MMA, Gracie is the 2016 ONE Light Heavyweight Champion, a former Strikeforce and UFC middleweight contender, holding at the time of his retirement in 2017 a professional record of 8–2.

Title: Rambaa Somdet
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rambaa_Somdet
Excerpt: Rambaa Somdet (Thai: แรมบ้า สมเดช; born August 30, 1974) is a retired Thai mixed martial artist and former Muay Thai fighter who has fought for K-1, Shooto, DEEP and Palace Fighting Championship. He competed in the flyweight and strawweight divisions. Somdet is a former Shooto World Flyweight (114 lb) Champion. He is considered by some to be the greatest strawweight in mixed martial arts history.

Title: Gabi Garcia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gabi_Garcia
Excerpt: Gabrielle Lemos "Gabi" Garcia (born November 17, 1985) is a Brazilian mixed martial artist and grappler. She is one of the most successful competitors of all time in the female black belt divisions, and a member of the IBJJF Hall of Fame.

Title: Veronica Hardy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Veronica_Hardy
Excerpt: Veronica Hardy (née Macedo; born October 30, 1995) is a Venezuelan mixed martial artist who currently competes in the women's Flyweight division in the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC).