Title: Emperor of Japan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emperor_of_Japan
Excerpt: The Emperor of Japan is the hereditary monarch and head of state of Japan.  The emperor is defined by the Constitution of Japan as the symbol of the Japanese state and the unity of the Japanese people, his position deriving from "the will of the people with whom resides sovereign power". The Imperial Household Law governs the line of imperial succession. Pursuant to his constitutional role as a national symbol, and in accordance with rulings by the Supreme Court of Japan, the emperor is personally immune from prosecution. By virtue of his position as the head of the Imperial House, the emperor is also recognized as the head of the Shinto religion, which holds him to be the direct descendant of the sun goddess Amaterasu. According to tradition, the office of emperor was created in the 7th century BC, but the first historically verifiable emperors appear around the 3rd or 4th centuries AD.
The role of the emperor of Japan has historically alternated between a largely ceremonial symbolic role and that of an actual imperial ruler. Since the establishment of the first shogunate in 1192, the emperors of Japan have rarely taken on a role as supreme battlefield commander, unlike many Western monarchs. Japanese emperors have nearly always been controlled by external political forces, to varying degrees. Between 1192 and 1867, the shōguns, or their shikken regents in Kamakura (1203–1333), were the de facto rulers of Japan, although they were nominally appointed by the emperor. After the Meiji Restoration in 1868, the emperor was the embodiment of all sovereign power in the realm, as enshrined in the Meiji Constitution of 1889; however, except for  a period of parliamentary monarchy from approximately 1905 to 1932, the degree to which the Emperor exercised real power between the Restoration and the Surrender of Japan at the end of World War II is widely debated. Since the enactment of the 1947 constitution, the emperor has been relegated to an entirely ceremonial and representative role, without even nominal political powers. The emperor is the head of the Japanese honors system, conferring orders, decorations, medals, and awards in the name of the state and on behalf of its people in accordance with the advice of the Cabinet.
Since the mid-nineteenth century, the emperor and other members of the imperial family have resided at the Imperial Palace, located on the former site of Edo Castle in the heart of Tokyo, the current capital of Japan. Earlier, emperors resided in Kyoto, the ancient capital, for nearly eleven centuries. The Emperor's Birthday (currently 23 February) is a national holiday.
The emperor since 1 May 2019 is Naruhito, who ascended the Chrysanthemum Throne on the abdication of his father, Akihito. He is the only remaining monarch and head of state in the world who holds the title of Emperor.

Title: AD 1000
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AD_1000
Excerpt: 1000 (M) was a leap year starting on Monday of the Julian calendar, the 1000th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 1000th and last year of the 1st millennium, the 100th and last year of the 10th century, and the  1st   year of the 1000s decade. As of the start of 1000, the Gregorian calendar was 5 days ahead of the Julian calendar, which was the dominant calendar of the time.  
In the proleptic Gregorian calendar, it was a non-leap century year starting on Wednesday (like 1800).
The year falls well into the period of Old World history known as the Middle Ages; in Europe, it is sometimes and by convention considered the boundary date between the Early Middle Ages and the High Middle Ages. The Muslim world was in its Islamic Golden Age. China was in its Song dynasty, Korea was in its Goryeo dynasty, Vietnam was in its Anterior Lê dynasty and Japan was in its classical Heian period. India was divided into a number of lesser empires, such as the Eastern Chalukyas, Pala Empire (Kamboja Pala dynasty; Mahipala), Chola dynasty (Rajaraja I), Yadava dynasty, etc. Sub-Saharan Africa had developing urban centers and empires such as the Ghana Empire of the Wagadu, and the Trans-Saharan slave trade was beginning to be an important factor in the formation of the Sahelian kingdoms. The pre-Columbian New World was in a time of general transition in many regions. Wari and Tiwanaku cultures receded in power and influence while Chachapoya and Chimú cultures rose to prominence in South America. In Mesoamerica, the Maya Terminal Classic period saw the decline of many grand polities of the Petén like Palenque and Tikal yet a renewed vigor and greater construction phases of sites in the Yucatán Peninsula like Chichen Itza and Uxmal. Mitla, with Mixtec influence, became the more important site of the Zapotec, overshadowing the waning Monte Albán. Cholula flourished in central Mexico, as did Tula, the center of Toltec culture.
The World population is estimated to have been between c. 250 and 310 million.

Title: Masako Nozawa
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Masako_Nozawa
Excerpt: Masako Nozawa (Japanese: 野沢 雅子, Hepburn: Nozawa Masako; born October 25, 1936) is a Japanese actress. Beginning work as a child actress at the age of three, by the time she became an adult, voice acting had inadvertently become her main occupation. Throughout her career, Nozawa has been affiliated with Production Baobab, 81 Produce, the self-owned Office Nozawa and Aoni Production. She is best known as the voice of Son Goku in the Dragon Ball franchise, beginning with its first animated adaptation in 1986. She also voices most of the character's male relatives, namely Son Gohan, Son Goten, and Bardock. Nozawa's other roles include Kitarō in GeGeGe no Kitarō (1968, 1971, 2008, 2017), Doraemon in the 1973 anime, and Tetsurō Hoshino in Galaxy Express 999 (1978, 1979).
A pioneer of voice acting in Japan, Nozawa is the first voice actor to be honored as a Person of Cultural Merit by the Japanese government and the first to win the Kikuchi Kan Prize. Her other accolades include an Animation Kobe Award, Tokyo Anime Award, Seiyu Award, Japanese Movie Critics Award and Japan Academy Film Prize. Her work voicing Goku in Dragon Ball video games has earned her two Guinness World Records, including for the longest video game voice acting career. Nozawa is a vice president of the Japan Actors Union. Her husband was fellow voice actor Masaaki Tsukada.

Title: Imperial House of Japan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperial_House_of_Japan
Excerpt: The Imperial House (皇室, Kōshitsu) is the reigning dynasty of Japan, consisting of those members of the extended family of the reigning emperor of Japan who undertake official and public duties. Under the present constitution of Japan, the emperor is "the symbol of the State and of the unity of the people". Other members of the imperial family perform ceremonial and social duties, but have no role in the affairs of government. The duties as an emperor are passed down the line to their male children. The Japanese monarchy is the oldest continuous hereditary monarchy in the world.

Title: Akihito
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Akihito
Excerpt: Akihito (born 23 December 1933) is a member of the Imperial House of Japan who reigned as the 125th emperor of Japan from 7 January 1989 until his abdication on 30 April 2019. The era of his rule was named the Heisei era, Heisei being an expression of achieving peace worldwide.
Akihito was born as the fifth child and first son of Emperor Hirohito and Empress Kōjun. During the Second World War, he moved out of Tokyo with his classmates and remained in Nikkō until the surrender of Japan. In 1952, his Coming-of-Age ceremony and investiture as crown prince were held, and he began to undertake official duties in his capacity as crown prince. The next year, he made his first journey overseas and represented Japan at the coronation of Elizabeth II in London. He completed his university education in 1956. In April 1959, he married Michiko Shōda, a commoner; it was the first imperial wedding to be televised in Japan, drawing about 15 million viewers. The couple has three children: Naruhito, Fumihito, and Sayako.
Akihito succeeded to the Chrysanthemum Throne and became emperor upon his father's death in January 1989, with an enthronement ceremony in 1990. He made efforts to bring the Japanese imperial family closer to the Japanese people, and made official visits to all forty-seven prefectures of Japan and to many of the remote islands of Japan. He has a keen interest in natural life and conservation, as well as Japanese and world history. Akihito abdicated in 2019, citing his advanced age and declining health, and assumed the title Emperor Emeritus (上皇, Jōkō; lit. 'Retired Emperor'). He was succeeded by his elder son, Naruhito, whose era is named Reiwa (令和). At age 92, Akihito is the longest-lived verifiable Japanese emperor in recorded history. During his reign, 17 prime ministers served in 25 terms, beginning with Noboru Takeshita and ending with Shinzo Abe. He is the oldest living member of the Imperial House of Japan, following the death of Yuriko, Princess Mikasa, on 15 November 2024.