Title: India
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/India
Excerpt: India, officially the Republic of India, is a country in South Asia.  It is the world's seventh-largest country by area and the largest by population. Bounded by the Indian Ocean on the south, the Arabian Sea on the southwest, and the Bay of Bengal on the southeast, it shares land borders with Pakistan to the west; China, Nepal, and Bhutan to the north; and Bangladesh and Myanmar to the east. In the Indian Ocean, India is near Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
Modern humans arrived on the Indian subcontinent from Africa by 55,000 years ago. Their long, isolated occupation as hunter-gatherers made the region highly diverse. Settled life emerged on the western margins of the Indus basin 9,000 years ago, evolving into the Indus Valley Civilisation by the third millennium BCE. By 1200 BCE, an archaic form of Sanskrit had diffused into India from the northwest, its hymns recording the early dawnings of Hinduism. India's pre-existing Dravidian languages were supplanted in the northern regions. By 400 BCE, social differentiation by caste had consolidated within Hinduism. Contemporarily, Buddhism and Jainism had arisen, proclaiming social orders unlinked to heredity. The emergence of the loose-knit Maurya and Gupta Empires, gave rise to wide-ranging cultural and scientific creativity, but their eras also witnessed a steady erosion of women's rights, and, by the end, the rigid institutionalisation of untouchability. Concurrently accross the first millennium CE, the Middle kingdoms of South India transmitted Dravidian language scripts and cultures to Southeast Asia. Well before the millennium's end, Judaism, Christianity, Islam and Zoroastrianism had become established on India's southern and western coasts.
Early in the 2nd millennium, Muslim armies from Central Asia intermittently overran India's northern plaints, eventually establishing the Delhi Sultanate, and drawing India into the cosmopolitan networks of medieval Islam. The Vijayanagara Empire created a long-lasting composite South Indian culture. Sikhism emerged in the Punjab, rejecting institutionalised religion. The Mughal Empire ushered in two centuries of economic expansion and relative peace, leaving a rich architectural legacy. Gradually expanding rule of the British East India Company turned India into a colonial economy but consolidated its sovereignty. British Crown rule began in 1858. The rights promised to Indians were granted slowly, but technological changes were introduced, and modern education and the public life took root. A nationalist movement emerged in India, the first in the non-European British Empire. Noted for nonviolent resistance after 1920, it became the primary factor in ending British rule. In 1947, the British Indian Empire was partitioned into two independent dominions, a Hindu-majority dominion of India and a Muslim-majority dominion of Pakistan. A large-scale loss of life and an unprecedented migration accompanied the partition.
Since 1950, India has been a federal republic, governed through a democratic parliamentary system. It is a pluralistic, multilingual and multi-ethnic society. India's population grew from 361 million in 1951 to over 1.4 billion in 2023. Its fast-growing economy is a hub for information technology, with an expanding middle class. India has reduced poverty, though alongside increasing economic inequality. It is a nuclear-weapon state, with high military expenditure, and holds unresolved mid-20th-century disputes over Kashmir with its neighbours, Pakistan and China. Socio-economic challenges include gender inequality, child malnutrition, and rising air pollution. India's megadiverse land features four biodiversity hotspots. Its wildlife is supported in protected habitats and traditionally viewed with cultural tolerance.

Title: St. Vincent's High School
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._Vincent%27s_High_School
Excerpt: St. Vincent's High School is a private Catholic primary and secondary school and pre-university college for boys located in the city of Pune, Maharashtra, India. The English-medium convent school was founded by the Jesuits in 1867, located and is named in honour of Vincent de Paul, a seventeenth-century saint known for his love for the poor and the downtrodden. The school, which is recognized by the Government of Maharashtra, prepares pupils for the Secondary School Certificate Examination (Std. X) and for the Higher Secondary Certificate examination (Std. XII).

Title: Campion School, Mumbai
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Campion_School,_Mumbai
Excerpt: Campion School is a private Catholic primary and secondary school  located at 13 Cooperage Road, Mumbai, in the state of Maharashtra, India. Established in 1943 by Jesuit Fr. Joseph Savall, the school is named in honour of Saint Edmund Campion, a 16th-century English Roman Catholic martyr. From 1943 till 2025 the school was only for boys. In 2025 when the School transitioned from the ICSE Curriculum to the IGCSE Curriculum, even girls were given admission.
The school is housed in Wellesley House on Cooperage Road in the Fort neighbourhood of South west Mumbai. The school is across the street from Cooperage Ground, which is a major soccer stadium in Mumbai, as well as Oval Maidan a city landmark. The school has over 800 students and offers classes at elementary and secondary levels, ranging from preparatory to grade 10. It was affiliated with the ICSE school syllabus and has English as its primary language of instruction.
Campion School has been taking part in most of the inter-school events organized by the Government, and often has prevailed. In a 2009 pan-India survey of day boys schools, conducted by Education World magazine, Campion School was ranked first in the country, and in 2013 it garnered the penultimate place.
In 2025, Campion School launched the Campion International School and started the IGCSE Cambridge Early Years Programme for Age groups 3 years to 6 years for Nursery and Junior KG. Since 1943 Campion School has been an all boys school. This was the first time when girls studied alongside boys in the co-education model of schooling.

Title: History of Pune
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Pune
Excerpt: Pune is the 9th most populous city in India and is the second largest in terms of population in the state of Maharashtra.
Although the area around Pune has history going back millennia, the more recent history of the city is closely related to the rise of the Maratha Empire from the 17th–18th century. Pune first came under Maratha control in the early 1600s when Maloji Bhosale was granted fiefdom of Pune by the Nizam Shahi of Ahmednagar. When Maloji's son, Shahaji had to join campaigns in distant southern India for the Adil Shahi sultanate, he selected Pune for the residence of his wife, Jijabai and younger son, Shivaji (1630-1680), the future founder of the Maratha Empire. Although Shivaji spent part of his childhood and teenage years in Pune, the actual control of the Pune region shifted between the Bhosale family of Shivaji, the Adil Shahi dynasty, and the Mughals.
In the early 1700s, Pune and its surrounding areas were granted to the newly appointed Maratha Peshwa, Balaji Vishwanath by Chhatrapati Shahu, grandson of Shivaji. Balaji Vishwanath's son, and successor as the Peshwa, Bajirao I made Pune as his seat of administration. This spurred growth in the city during Bajirao's rule which was continued by his descendants for the best part of 18th century. The city was a political and commercial center of the Indian subcontinent during that period. This period came to an end with the Marathas losing to the British East India Company during the Third Anglo-Maratha War in 1818.
After the fall of Peshwa rule in 1818, the British East India Company made the city one of its major military bases. They established military cantonments in the eastern part of the city, and another one at nearby Khadki. The city was known by the name of Poona during British rule and for a few decades after Indian independence. The company rule came to an end when in 1858, under the terms of the proclamation issued by Queen Victoria, the Bombay Presidency, along with Pune and the rest of British India, came under the direct rule of the British crown. British rule in the city for more than a century saw huge changes in the social, political, economic, and cultural life of the city. These included the introduction of railways, telegraph, roads, modern education, hospitals and social changes. Prior to the British takeover, the city was confined to the eastern bank of the Mutha river. Since then, the city has grown on both sides of the river. During British rule, Pune was made into the monsoon capital of the Bombay presidency. Palaces, parks, a golf course, a racecourse, and a boating lake were some of the facilities that were constructed to accommodate the leisurely pursuits of the ruling British elites of the Bombay presidency that stayed in the city during the monsoon season, and the military personnel. In the 19th and early 20th century, Pune was the center of social reform, and at the turn of the 20th century, the center of nationalism. For the latter, it was considered by the British as the center of political unrest against their rule. The social reform movement by Jyotiba Phule in the latter half of 1800s saw establishment of schools for girls as well as for the Dalits. In 1890s, nationalist leader Bal Gangadhar Tilak promoted public celebration of the Ganesh festival as a hidden means for political activism, intellectual discourse, poetry recitals, plays, concerts, and folk dances.
The post-independence era after 1947 saw Pune turning from a mid-size city to a large metropolis. Industrial development started in the outlining areas of the city such as Hadapsar, Bhosari, and Pimpri in the 1950s. The first big operation to be set up was the government run Hindustan Antibiotics in Pimpri in 1954.The area around Bhosari was set aside for industrial development, by the newly created Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) in the early 1960s. MIDC provided the necessary infrastructure for new businesses to set up operations. The status of Pune was elevated from town to city, when the Municipality was converted into Pune Mahanagar Palika or the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the year 1950.This period saw a huge influx of people to the city due to opportunities offered by the boom in the manufacturing industry, and lately in the software field. The influx has been from other areas of Maharashtra as well as from outside the state. The post-independence period has also seen further growth in the higher education sector in the city. This included the establishment of the University of Pune (now, Savitribai Phule Pune University) in 1949, the National Chemical Laboratory in 1950 and the National Defence Academy in 1955.The Panshet flood of 1961 resulted in a huge loss of housing on the riverbank and spurred the growth of new suburbs. In the 1990s, the city emerged as a major information technology hub.

Title: St. Anne's School (Pune)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._Anne%27s_School_(Pune)
Excerpt: St. Anne's Convent High School is a government-accredited English medium girls' school which was founded in 1860 in Camp, Pune, Maharashtra, India. The student population of 2200 attends classes between nursery grade and tenth standard. The school employs 67 teachers. The primary school (standards one to four) operates as a private entity. The secondary school (standards five to ten) is operated by the State Education Department.
St. Anne's High School which has been established by the Provincial Society of the Congregation of Jesus and Mary, Pune, is a Christian Minority Institution, which aims primarily at the education of the Catholic Community and the preservation of the Catholic faith and religious practices.