Title: Jamie Murray
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jamie_Murray
Excerpt: James Robert Murray  (born 13 February 1986) is a British former professional tennis player. A doubles specialist, he is a seven-time major doubles champion (five in mixed doubles and two in men's doubles), a Davis Cup winner, and a former doubles world No. 1. He is the older brother of former singles world No. 1, Andy Murray. Murray had an early career partnership with Eric Butorac, winning three titles in 2007. His following seven ATP finals came with six different partners. In 2013, he began a new partnership with John Peers, winning six ATP tournaments, and reaching two Grand Slam finals. After this partnership ended, Murray played alongside Bruno Soares from 2016, with the new pair enjoying almost immediate success after winning only their second ATP tournament together. They went on to win the 2016 Australian Open and US Open, and Murray became world No. 1 in April that year, spending nine weeks at the top of the rankings. He and Soares split in 2019, with Murray competing alongside compatriot Neal Skupski until the end of 2020, winning one ATP title together. He then reunited with Soares, with the pair finishing runners-up at the 2021 US Open.Murray was part of the Great Britain team that won the 2015 Davis Cup, the nation's first victory in the tournament for 79 years. He and his brother recorded crucial doubles victories in Britain's quarterfinal, semifinal and final wins.
The Davis Cup team was awarded the 2015 BBC Sports Personality Team of the Year Award. Murray has also competed at the Summer Olympics on four occasions. Brad Gilbert, who coached Andy Murray, nicknamed Jamie 'Stretch' because of his 6-foot-3-inch height and long arms.

Title: Heather (given name)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heather_(given_name)
Excerpt: Heather is an English primarily feminine given name. The botanical name refers to a variety of small shrubs with pink or white flowers which commonly grow in rocky areas. The brush is native to Scotland and England, but it is more commonly found in Scotland due to its rocky territories. The name is derived from Middle English hather. The spelling was altered in the 18th century due to associations with the English word heath, denoting a location where the plant heather often grows.
Heath is often regarded as a masculine form of the name. Heath has also occasionally been used as a girl's name in the United States.
Heather is also a surname.

Title: Heather Watson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heather_Watson
Excerpt: Heather Miriam Watson (born 19 May 1992) is a British professional tennis player. A former British No. 1, Watson has won ten titles over her career, including the mixed-doubles title at the 2016 Wimbledon Championships, partnering Henri Kontinen, making her the first British woman to win a major title since Jo Durie in 1991, and the first to win a Wimbledon title since Durie in 1987. In October 2012, Watson won her first WTA Tour singles title at the Japan Women's Open, becoming the first British woman to win such a title since Sara Gomer in 1988.
As a junior, Watson won the US Open and a gold medal at the 2008 Commonwealth Youth Games. She reached No. 3 in the world on the ITF Junior Circuit.

Title: 2025 Wimbledon Championships – Women's singles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_Wimbledon_Championships_%E2%80%93_Women%27s_singles
Excerpt: Iga Świątek defeated Amanda Anisimova in the final, 6–0, 6–0 to win the ladies' singles tennis title at the 2025 Wimbledon Championships. It was her first Wimbledon title and sixth major title overall. Świątek became the first Pole to win a Wimbledon singles title.
This was only the third major final, and the second in the Open Era, to end in a "double bagel" scoreline (after the 1911 Wimbledon Championships and 1988 French Open). Świątek was the eighth woman in the Open Era to win major singles titles on all three surfaces – clay, grass and hardcourt. She was the fifth player overall, and fourth in the Open Era (after Ann Jones, Martina Hingis, Amélie Mauresmo and Ashleigh Barty) to win the women's singles title after previously winning the girls' singles title. By reaching the final, Anisimova made her debut in the top ten of the WTA rankings.
Barbora Krejčíková was the defending champion, but lost in the third round to Emma Navarro. The losses of Elena Rybakina and Krejčíková in the third round guaranteed a first-time Wimbledon champion for the eighth consecutive edition. For the first time in the Open Era, none of the quarterfinalists had previously reached the Wimbledon final. 
With the losses of second seed Coco Gauff and third seed Jessica Pegula in the first round, this was the first time in the Open Era that two of the top three women's seeds lost in the first round of a major.
Zeynep Sönmez became the first Turkish player in the Open Era to reach the third round of a major.
Solana Sierra became the first lucky loser to reach the women's singles fourth round at Wimbledon in the Open Era, and the seventh woman overall to do so at any major.
This marked the final Wimbledon appearance of former world No. 2 and two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitová. She lost in the first round to Navarro.

Title: 2026 Wimbledon Championships – Mixed doubles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Wimbledon_Championships_%E2%80%93_Mixed_doubles
Excerpt: Marcelo Arévalo and Jeļena Ostapenko defeated Marc Polmans and Storm Hunter in the final, 4–6, 7–5, 6–2 to win the mixed doubles tennis title at the 2026 Wimbledon Championships. Arévalo became the first Salvadoran player to win a Wimbledon title. Ostapenko was the seventh female player in the past 60 years to win major titles in singles, doubles, and mixed doubles.
Sem Verbeek and Kateřina Siniaková were the reigning champions, but they did not participate this year.