Title: Diana (mythology)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diana_(mythology)
Excerpt: Diana is a goddess in Roman religion, primarily considered a patroness of the countryside and nature, hunters, wildlife, childbirth, crossroads, the night, and the Moon. She is equated with the Greek goddess Artemis, and absorbed much of Artemis' mythology early in Roman history, including a birth on the island of Delos to parents Jupiter and Latona, and a twin brother, Apollo, though she had an independent origin in Italy.
Diana is revered in modern neopagan religions including Roman neopaganism, Stregheria, and Wicca. In the ancient, medieval, and modern periods, Diana has been considered a triple deity, merged with a goddess of the moon (Luna/Selene) and the underworld (usually Hecate).

Title: Federal Security Service
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_Security_Service
Excerpt: The Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (FSB) is the principal security agency of Russia and the main successor agency to the Soviet Union's KGB; its immediate predecessor was the Federal Counterintelligence Service (FSK), which was reorganized into the FSB in 1995. The three major structural successor components of the former KGB that remain administratively independent of the FSB are the Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR), the Federal Protective Service (FSO), and the Main Directorate of Special Programs of the President of the Russian Federation (GUSP).
The primary responsibilities are within the country and include counter-intelligence, internal and border security, counterterrorism, surveillance and investigating some other types of serious crimes and federal law violations. It is headquartered in Lubyanka Square, Moscow's center, in the main building of the former KGB. The director of the FSB is appointed by and directly answerable to the president of Russia. Being part of Russia's executive branch formally, the FSB has significant, if not decisive, power over it.
In 2003, the FSB's responsibilities were expanded by incorporating the Border Guard Service and a major part of the Federal Agency of Government Communication and Information (FAPSI); this would include intelligence activities in countries that were once members of the Soviet Union, work formerly done by the KGB's Fifth Service. The SVR had in 1992 signed an agreement not to spy on those countries; the FSB had made no such commitment.

Title: The Room
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Room
Excerpt: The Room is a 2003 American independent romantic drama and black comedy film written, directed, produced, and starring Tommy Wiseau. The film also stars Juliette Danielle and Greg Sestero. Set in San Francisco, the film is centered around a melodramatic love triangle between amiable banker Johnny (Wiseau), his deceptive fiancée Lisa (Danielle), and his conflicted best friend Mark (Sestero). The work was reportedly intended to be semi-autobiographical. According to Wiseau, the title alludes to the potential of a room to be the site of both good and bad events. The stage play from which the film is derived was so named due to its events taking place entirely in a single room.
A number of publications have labeled The Room as one of the worst films ever made, one even describing it as "the Citizen Kane of bad movies". Originally shown only in a limited release in California, The Room quickly became a cult film due to its bizarre and unconventional storytelling, technical and narrative issues, and Wiseau's performance. Although Wiseau has retrospectively described the film as a black comedy, audiences have generally viewed it as a poorly made drama, an opinion shared by some of the cast. Although the film was a box-office bomb, home-media sales and notoriety following its initial release significantly increased its public profile.
The Disaster Artist, Sestero's memoir of the making of The Room, was co-written with Tom Bissell and published in 2013. A film of the same title based on the book, directed by and starring James Franco, was released on December 1, 2017; the book and film received widespread acclaim and numerous award nominations. A remake starring Bob Odenkirk was released in 2025; it was initially planned to be released in 2023, which would have coincided with the twentieth anniversary of The Room.

Title: Crocus City Hall attack
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crocus_City_Hall_attack
Excerpt: On 22 March 2024, a coordinated terrorist attack against civilians occurred at the Crocus City Hall music venue in Crocus City, Krasnogorsk, Moscow Oblast, Russia. The attack began at around 20:00 MSK (UTC+3), shortly before the Russian band Picnic was scheduled to play a sold-out show at the venue. Four terrorists associated with  Islamic State – Khorasan Province (IS–KP or ISIS-K) carried out a mass shooting, as well as slashing attacks on the people gathered at the venue, and used incendiary devices to set the venue on fire. Investigators said 151 people had been killed (including those who died later in hospital), and more than 609 concertgoers had been injured by gunfire or suffering from burns.
IS claimed responsibility for the attack in a statement through the IS-affiliated Amaq News Agency shortly after the attack, with its regional branch in the Afghanistan, Islamic State – Khorasan Province (IS–KP or ISIS-K), most likely being responsible. Amaq also published a video filmed by one of the attackers. It showed the attackers shooting victims and slitting the throat of a victim, while the filming attacker was reciting the takbir, praising God and speaking against infidels.
Russia's Foreign Ministry called the incident a terrorist attack. Russian president Vladimir Putin called the attack a "barbaric terrorist act" and said that the gunmen had been arrested. He also declared 24 March 2024 to be a national day of mourning, and sought to link assailants to Ukraine, in what has been described as "very doubtful and primitive"  disinformation. It was the deadliest terrorist attack on Russian soil since the Beslan school siege in 2004. Investigators detained 12 people in relation to the attack, including four suspects, who were charged with terrorism later on 24 March.

Title: Assassination of Charlie Kirk
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_of_Charlie_Kirk
Excerpt: On September 10, 2025, Charlie Kirk, an American right-wing political activist, was assassinated at Utah Valley University in Orem, Utah, while speaking at an outdoor campus debate planned by Turning Point USA, the conservative youth organization he co-founded and led. Kirk was a close ally of US president Donald Trump and a highly influential figure in the MAGA movement.
Shortly after the debate event began, with around 3,000 people in attendance, Kirk was fatally shot in the neck with a single bullet by a sniper positioned on the roof of a building approximately 142 yards (130 m) away. Kirk was taken to a local hospital, where he was pronounced dead at age 31. A manhunt for the shooter ended the following day when Tyler James Robinson, a 22-year-old from Washington, Utah, surrendered to the local sheriff after his parents allegedly convinced him to do so after he confessed to them. Prosecutors charged Robinson with a total of ten criminal counts including aggravated murder, and announced they would seek the death penalty, alleging a politically motivated attack. Robinson pleaded not guilty to all of the charges on September 1, 2026.
The assassination was highlighted as an instance of increasing political violence in the United States and was condemned by national and foreign leaders. Public reactions ranged from heartfelt messages expressing anguish about the political climate to sharply partisan comments. Trump, members of the Republican Party, and other conservative figures blamed members of the Democratic Party and left-wing or liberal beliefs before a suspect was in custody or a motive was identified.
The Trump administration called for a crackdown against what it called "political extremism" on the left, which was widely criticized by free speech advocates and legal experts as using the assassination as a pretext to silence political opposition. A campaign by right-wing organizations and US government agencies resulted in mass firings and disciplinary actions against people seen as celebrating Kirk's death or making critical comments about him in the aftermath of the assassination. Kirk's memorial service was held at State Farm Stadium in Arizona on September 21.