Title: Poker Hall of Fame
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poker_Hall_of_Fame
Excerpt: The Poker Hall of Fame is the hall of fame of professional poker in the United States. Founded in Las Vegas, it was created in 1979 by Benny Binion, the owner of the Horseshoe Casino, to preserve the names and legacies of the world's greatest poker players and to serve as a tourist attraction to his casino.
Binion was known for the creative ways in which he marketed his casino. In 1949, he convinced Johnny Moss and Nick "The Greek" Dandolos to play high-stakes poker heads up where the public could watch them. In 1970, he invited a group of poker players to compete in what would be the first World Series of Poker (WSOP). When Harrah's Entertainment, later known as Caesars Entertainment, acquired the rights to the WSOP in 2004, it also assumed ownership of the Poker Hall of Fame.  Currently, membership in the Poker Hall of Fame is handled directly by the WSOP.
As of 2026, 64 people have been inducted into the Poker Hall of Fame, 33 of whom are still living.
In July 2023, an exhibit devoted to the Poker Hall of Fame opened in the Horseshoe Las Vegas, owned by Caesar’s Entertainment. The exhibit acknowledges poker’s most legendary players with a Gallery of Champions, WSOP bracelets and rings.

Title: Phil Ivey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phil_Ivey
Excerpt: Phillip Dennis Ivey Jr. (born February 1, 1977) is an American professional poker player who has won eleven World Series of Poker bracelets, one World Poker Tour title, and appeared at nine World Poker Tour final tables. Ivey is regarded by numerous poker observers and contemporaries as the best all-around player in the world.  In 2017, he was elected to the Poker Hall of Fame. He is also an ambassador for WPT Global.

Title: Jeff Madsen
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeff_Madsen
Excerpt: Jeff Madsen (born June 7, 1985) is a four-time World Series of Poker bracelet winner and the 2006 World Series of Poker Player of the Year.

Title: Steve Billirakis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Billirakis
Excerpt: Steve Billirakis (born May 23, 1986) is an American professional poker player. He was born in Hampshire, Illinois.
Billirakis won the first tournament of the 2007 World Series of Poker winning the $5,000 World Championship Mixed Hold'em Limit/No-Limit event after beating Canadian poker player and former professional hockey player Greg Mueller heads-up.  Billirakis won $536,287 and became the then youngest WSOP bracelet winner in history, having won the event only 11 days after his 21st birthday.  The previous record holder was Jeff Madsen, who had set the record only the year before. Billirakis' record was broken on September 10, 2007 when Annette Obrestad won the main event of the World Series of Poker Europe where the age limit was only 18 years. Prior to signing up for this mixed hold'em event, Billirakis had never played limit hold'em.  His friends gave him a crash course in the days leading up to the event.
On one key hand when they were heads up, Mueller had made top pair against Billirakis's trips.  When Billirakis raised on the river, Mueller made a feint of putting chips into the pot to attempt to get a read on whether Billirakis wanted him to call.  While not a formal breach of the rules, ESPN commentator Norman Chad opined that such plays "ain't kosher" according to poker etiquette.  A short-stacked Mueller later called the big blind with 5♦ 4♦.  Billirakis raised Mueller all-in with K♠ 2♦.  The board came down J♦ Q♥ 2♠ 8♥ Q♠, giving Billirakis the winning hand with two pair queens and deuces.
In November 2008, Billirakis won a WSOP Circuit Event - Horseshoe Hammond, $5,150 Championship, earning $208,885. He won his second bracelet in the 2011 WSOP Europe in a Pot Limit Omaha event.
As of 2014, Billirakis's total live tournament winnings exceed $2,625,000. His 21 cashes at the WSOP account for $1,675,026 of those winnings.

Title: List of Pawn Stars episodes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Pawn_Stars_episodes
Excerpt: Pawn Stars is an American reality television series that premiered on History on July 19, 2009. The series is filmed in Las Vegas, Nevada, where it chronicles the activities at the World Famous Gold & Silver Pawn Shop, a 24-hour family business operated by patriarch Richard "Old Man" Harrison, his son Rick Harrison, Rick's son Corey "Big Hoss" Harrison, and Corey's childhood friend, Austin "Chumlee" Russell. The descriptions of the items listed in this article reflect those given by their sellers and staff in the episodes, prior to their appraisal by experts as to their authenticity, unless otherwise noted.