Title: Naruhito
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naruhito
Excerpt: Naruhito (born 23 February 1960) is Emperor of Japan. He acceded to the Chrysanthemum Throne on 1 May 2019 following the abdication of his father, Akihito. He is the 126th monarch, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign is known as the Reiwa era.
Naruhito is the elder son of Emperor Emeritus Akihito and Empress Emerita Michiko. He was born during the reign of his paternal grandfather, Hirohito. He became heir apparent following his father's accession in 1989, and was formally invested as Crown Prince in 1991. He attended Gakushūin schools in Tokyo and later studied history at Gakushuin University and English at Merton College, Oxford. He married the diplomat Masako Owada in 1993. They have one daughter: Aiko, Princess Toshi. 
Continuing his grandfather's and father's boycott over the enshrinement of convicted war criminals, he has never visited Yasukuni Shrine. He is an advocate in the fields of water policy and water conservation. He was an honorary president of the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics and is a supporter of the World Organization of the Scout Movement.

Title: Empress Masako
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Empress_Masako
Excerpt: Masako (Japanese: 雅子; born Masako Owada (小和田雅子, Owada Masako); 9 December 1963) is Empress of Japan as the wife of Emperor Naruhito.
Born in Minato, Tokyo, Masako was educated at Belmont High School in Massachusetts, United States, before attending Harvard College. She also studied law at the University of Tokyo and international relations at Balliol College, Oxford. After completing her studies, she worked for Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a diplomat.
Masako met Crown Prince Naruhito in 1986. They married in 1993 and their only child, Aiko, Princess Toshi, was born in 2001. The birth of Princess Aiko fueled the ongoing Japanese imperial succession debate, which had led some politicians to favor rescinding the agnatic primogeniture imposed by the Allies of World War II on the Constitution of Japan. However, with the birth of a son to Naruhito's brother, Fumihito, in 2006, no amendments were made and Princess Aiko remains ineligible to inherit the throne.
The pressure to produce a male heir affected Masako's health. She was diagnosed with adjustment disorder in 2004, which forced her to withdraw from public life periodically. As crown princess and later empress, Masako has accompanied her husband on official visits abroad and at ceremonies in the imperial court.

Title: Aiko, Princess Toshi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aiko,_Princess_Toshi
Excerpt: Aiko, Princess Toshi (敬宮愛子内親王, Toshi-no-miya Aiko Naishinnō; born 1 December 2001) is a member of the Imperial House of Japan. She is the only child of Emperor Naruhito and Empress Masako.
Following her birth, the ongoing Japanese imperial succession debate had resulted in some politicians holding a favorable view on rescinding agnatic primogeniture (male-only imperial succession) originally implemented in 1889 and retained by the Allies of World War II on the Constitution of Japan. However, once her uncle Crown Prince Fumihito had a son, Hisahito, in September 2006, Hisahito became second in the line of succession following his father. Aiko remains at present legally ineligible to inherit the throne and she cannot succeed her father, while debate about the possibility of having future empresses regnant continues.

Title: Sayako Kuroda
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sayako_Kuroda
Excerpt: Sayako Kuroda (黒田 清子, Kuroda Sayako; born 18 April 1969), formerly Sayako, Princess Nori (紀宮清子内親王, Nori-no-miya Sayako Naishinnō), is the youngest child and only daughter of Emperor Emeritus Akihito and Empress Emerita Michiko, and the younger sister of the current Emperor of Japan, Naruhito. She is an imperial Shinto priestess of the Ise Grand Shrine, currently serving as the Supreme Priestess.
Kuroda held the appellation "Nori-no-miya"  (Princess Nori), until her marriage to Yoshiki Kuroda on 15 November 2005. As a result of her marriage, she gave up her imperial title and left the Japanese imperial family, as required by the Article 12 of the Imperial Household Law, and received a payment of approximately US$1,000,000.

Title: Princess Kako of Akishino
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princess_Kako_of_Akishino
Excerpt: Princess Kako of Akishino (佳子内親王, Kako Naishinnō; born 29 December 1994) is the second daughter of the Crown Prince and Crown Princess of Japan and a member of the Akishino branch of the Japanese imperial family. She is a niece of Emperor Naruhito and the second-eldest grandchild of Emperor Emeritus Akihito and Empress Emerita Michiko.