Title: Melbourne Cricket Ground
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melbourne_Cricket_Ground
Excerpt: The  Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG), also known locally as the 'G',  is a multi-purpose stadium located in Yarra Park in the suburb of East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The stadium primarily hosts Australian rules football and cricket as the home ground of multiple teams in the Australian Football League (AFL), as well as the Melbourne Renegades and the Melbourne Stars in the Big Bash League (BBL) and the Victorian cricket team in the Sheffield Shield. It also frequently hosts the Australian national cricket team. The ground was established by the Melbourne Cricket Club (MCC) in 1853, who continue to manage and operate the site. The stadium itself is owned by the Victorian Government through its appointed MCG Trust.
The MCG is the host venue of the annual AFL Grand Final, the world's second-highest attended league championship event, and the annual Boxing Day Test match. The stadium has hosted two Cricket World Cup finals (1992 and 2015). It was the venue for the opening and closing ceremonies in the 1956 Summer Olympics, where it also hosted athletics and the finals for hockey and football. It also hosted the opening and closing ceremonies, along with athletics, during the 2006 Commonwealth Games. The stadium has also hosted matches during the State of Origin rugby league series, football in the 2000 Summer Olympics, and the Bledisloe Cup. The MCG also hosted both the first Test match and the first One Day International, played between Australia and England in 1877 and 1971, respectively.
Since it was built in 1853, the MCG has undergone numerous renovations, with capacity of the stadium now standing at approximately 95,000 (with an additional 5,000 for standing-room only), bringing the total capacity to 100,024. It is the largest stadium in Australia, the eleventh-largest stadium globally, the second-largest cricket stadium by capacity and the largest stadium in the Southern Hemisphere. It is listed on both the Victorian Heritage Register and the Australian National Heritage List and is the home of the Australian Sports Museum.

Title: Palace of Fine Arts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palace_of_Fine_Arts
Excerpt: The Palace of Fine Arts is a monumental structure located in the Marina District of San Francisco, California, United States, originally built for the 1915 Panama–Pacific International Exposition to exhibit works of art. Completely rebuilt from 1964 to 1974, it is the only structure from the exposition that survives on site.
Conceived to evoke a decaying ruin of ancient Rome, the Palace of Fine Arts became one of San Francisco's most recognizable landmarks. The most prominent building of the complex, a 162-foot-high (49-meter) open rotunda, is enclosed by a lagoon on one side and adjoins a large, curved exhibition center on the other side, separated from the lagoon by colonnades.  As of 2019, the exhibition center (one of San Francisco's largest single-story buildings) was in use as a venue for events such as weddings or trade fairs.
Early 2009 marked the completion of a renovation of the lagoons and walkways and a seismic retrofit.

Title: Frogmore House
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frogmore_House
Excerpt: Frogmore House is a 17th-century English country house owned by the Crown Estate. It is a historic Grade I listed building. The house is located on the Frogmore estate, which is situated within the grounds of the Home Park in Windsor, Berkshire. Half a mile south of Windsor Castle, Frogmore was let to a number of tenants until the late 18th century, when it was used intermittently as a residence for several members of the British royal family.
Queen Charlotte spent much time on the estate, and it was later the home of Queen Victoria's mother, the Duchess of Kent and Strathern (whose large mausoleum is in a part of the estate's 33 acre gardens). Although occasionally used as a retreat into the early 20th century, the house has been largely unoccupied since 1872. Queen Mary often stayed there early in her marriage and for the rest of her life in the 20th century took a special interest in furnishing the house with family mementos. Keepsakes from the royal yacht HMY Britannia following its decommissioning were placed there in the late 20th century by Prince Philip. In the 21st century, it is used by the royal family to host both private and official events.

Title: Brisbane Showgrounds
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brisbane_Showgrounds
Excerpt: The Brisbane Showgrounds (formerly known as the Brisbane Exhibition Ground) is a multi-purpose venue located in Bowen Hills, Brisbane, Australia. Established in 1875, it hosts more than 250 events each year, the largest being the Royal Queensland Show (Ekka).
The Brisbane Showgrounds was designed by Claude William Chambers and built by Walls & Juster. It is also referred to as the RNA Showgrounds, Ekka Grounds, Royal National Agricultural and Industrial Association of Queensland, Exhibition Grounds/Show Grounds, and Royal Queensland Showgrounds. It was added to the Queensland Heritage Register on 25 July 2003.
The Brisbane Showgrounds is owned and operated by The Royal National Agricultural and Industrial Association of Queensland. Over 9 days in August, it hosts the Ekka show. Throughout the rest of the year, other events can hire spaces in the Brisbane Showgrounds.

Title: SM Mall of Asia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SM_Mall_of_Asia
Excerpt: SM Mall of Asia, also abbreviated as SM MoA, or simply Mall of Asia or MoA ([ˈmoː.ɐ]), is a shopping mall in Bay City, Pasay, Philippines. It is located within the Central Business Park I-A, a reclaimed area along Manila Bay, at the southern terminus of EDSA. The mall is owned and developed by SM Prime. Mall of Asia is the largest shopping mall in the Philippines, the second-largest in Southeast Asia after IOI City Mall in Malaysia, the sixth-largest in the world, and the fourth and newest SM Supermall to be built along EDSA after SM Makati, SM North EDSA and SM Megamall. It currently occupies 16 hectares (40 acres) of land area and a gross floor area of approximately 497,000 m2 (5,350,000 sq ft), and offers 46,647 m2 (502,100 sq ft) of floor area space for conventions and social functions.