Title: The Godfather Part III
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Godfather_Part_III
Excerpt: The Godfather Part III is a 1990 American epic gangster film produced and directed by Francis Ford Coppola from the screenplay co-written with Mario Puzo. The film stars Al Pacino, Diane Keaton, Talia Shire, Andy García, Eli Wallach, Joe Mantegna, Bridget Fonda, George Hamilton and Sofia Coppola. It is the sequel to The Godfather Part II (1974) and the final installment of The Godfather trilogy. The film concludes the fictional story of Michael Corleone, the patriarch of the Corleone family, who attempts to legitimize his criminal empire. It also includes fictionalized accounts of two real-life events: the 1978 death of Pope John Paul I and the Papal banking scandal of 1981–1982, both linked to Michael Corleone's business affairs.
Although Coppola initially refused to return for a third film, he eventually signed to direct and write Part III. In his audio commentary for Part II, Coppola stated that only a dire financial situation, caused by the failure of his 1982 musical fantasy One from the Heart, compelled him to take up Paramount's long-standing offer to make a third installment. Coppola and Puzo wanted the title to be The Death of Michael Corleone, for they felt that the first two films had told the complete Corleone saga, so Part III would serve as the epilogue, but Paramount Pictures thought that that title was unacceptable.
Winona Ryder was initially cast in the role of Michael Corleone's daughter Mary, but eventually left production due to other commitments and nervous exhaustion. The role was ultimately given to Coppola's daughter Sofia, a decision that garnered much criticism and accusations of nepotism. Principal photography took place from late 1989 to early 1990, with filming locations in both Italy and the United States.
The Godfather Part III premiered in Beverly Hills on December 20, 1990, and was widely released in the United States on December 25. The film received mostly positive reviews, although it was considered inferior to the previous films and a disappointing conclusion to the trilogy. Critics praised Pacino's and Garcia's performances, as well as Coppola's direction, cinematography, editing, and production design, but criticized the plot and Sofia Coppola's performance. It grossed $136.8 million worldwide, and garnered seven nominations at the 63rd Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director and Best Supporting Actor (Garcia). It also received seven nominations at the 48th Golden Globe Awards, including Best Motion Picture – Drama and Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama (Pacino).
In December 2020, a recut version of the film, titled The Godfather Coda: The Death of Michael Corleone, was released to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the original version. Coppola called this version closer to his original vision for the film, and it received warmer reviews from critics.

Title: Javier Bardem
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Javier_Bardem
Excerpt: Javier Ángel Encinas Bardem (born 1 March 1969) is a Spanish actor. In a career spanning over three decades, he has received various accolades, including an Academy Award, a BAFTA Award, a Golden Globe Award, a Critics' Choice Movie Award, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, and seven Goya Awards, in addition to a Cannes Film Festival Award and two Volpi Cups. 
Bardem is the son of actress Pilar Bardem. He first became known for such Spanish films as Jamón jamón (1992), Boca a boca (1995), Live Flesh (1997), Mondays in the Sun (2002), and The Sea Inside (2004). He received nominations for the Academy Award for Best Actor for playing Reinaldo Arenas in Before Night Falls (2000), a criminal with cancer in Biutiful (2010), and Desi Arnaz in Being the Ricardos (2021). His portrayal of assassin Anton Chigurh in the Coen brothers' crime film No Country for Old Men (2007) won him the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.
Bardem has also starred in auteur driven films such as Woody Allen's romantic drama Vicky Cristina Barcelona (2008), Terrence Malick's drama To the Wonder (2013), Darren Aronofsky's horror film Mother! (2017), and Asghar Farhadi's mystery drama Everybody Knows (2018). He also acted in blockbuster films such as Eat Pray Love (2010), the James Bond film Skyfall (2012), the swashbuckler film Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales (2017), the science fiction epic films Dune (2021) and Dune: Part Two (2024), Disney's live-action remake The Little Mermaid (2023), and the sports action film F1 (2025). On television, he portrayed José Menendez in the Netflix crime anthology series Monsters: The Lyle and Erik Menendez Story (2024), for which he earned two Primetime Emmy Awards nominations for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited or Anthology Series or Movie and Outstanding Limited or Anthology Series (as an executive producer) and Max Cady in the Apple TV thriller Cape Fear.
Bardem married actress Penélope Cruz in 2010 and together they have two children. In January 2018, Bardem became the ambassador of Greenpeace for the protection of Antarctica.

Title: Gambino crime family
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gambino_crime_family
Excerpt: The Gambino crime family (Italian: [ɡamˈbiːno]) is an Italian American Mafia crime family and one of the "Five Families" that dominate organized crime activities in New York City, within the nationwide criminal phenomenon known as the American Mafia. The group, which went through five bosses between 1910 and 1957, is named after Carlo Gambino, boss of the family at the time of the McClellan hearings in 1963, when the structure of organized crime first gained public attention. The group's operations extend from New York and the eastern seaboard to California. Its illicit activities include labor and construction racketeering, gambling, loansharking, extortion, money laundering, prostitution, fraud, hijacking, and fencing.
The family was one of the five families that were founded in New York after the Castellammarese War of 1931. For most of the next quarter-century, it was a minor player in organized crime. Its most prominent member during this time was its underboss Albert Anastasia, who rose to infamy as the operating head of the underworld's enforcement arm, Murder, Inc. He remained in power even after Murder, Inc. was smashed in the late 1940s, and took over his family in 1951—by all accounts, after murdering the family's founder Vincent Mangano—which was then recognized as the Anastasia crime family.
The rise of what was the most powerful crime family in America for a time began in 1957, when Anastasia was assassinated while sitting in a barber chair at the Park Sheraton Hotel in Manhattan, New York City. Some historians believe that Albert Anastasia's underboss Carlo Gambino helped orchestrate the hit to take over the family. Gambino partnered with Meyer Lansky to control gambling interests in Cuba and a few other places. The family's fortunes grew through 1976, when Gambino appointed his brother-in-law Paul Castellano as boss upon his death. Castellano infuriated upstart capo John Gotti, who orchestrated Castellano's murder in 1985. Gotti's downfall came in 1992, when his underboss Salvatore "Sammy the Bull" Gravano cooperated with the FBI. Gravano's cooperation with the U.S. government sent John Gotti and most of the top members of the Gambino family to prison. Following the Gotti regime, the control of the Gambino family was assumed by the organization's Sicilian faction. Beginning in 2015, the family was headed by Frank Cali until his assassination outside his Staten Island home on March 13, 2019.

Title: The Untouchables (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Untouchables_(film)
Excerpt: The Untouchables is a 1987 American crime film directed by Brian De Palma, produced by Art Linson and written by David Mamet. It stars Kevin Costner, Charles Martin Smith, Andy García, Robert De Niro and Sean Connery. Set in 1930 Chicago, the film follows Eliot Ness (Costner) as he forms the Untouchables team to bring Al Capone (De Niro) to justice during Prohibition. It is the fourth film on which De Niro and De Palma collaborated, after Greetings (De Niro's first lead in a feature role), The Wedding Party and Hi, Mom!.
The screenplay is loosely based on Ness's and Oscar Fraley's 1957 book The Untouchables and the real-life events on which it is based, although most of its plot is fictionalized. The Academy Award-nominated, Grammy Award-winning score is composed by Ennio Morricone and features period music by Duke Ellington.
The Untouchables premiered on June 2, 1987, in New York City, and went into general release by Paramount Pictures on June 3, 1987, in the United States. The film grossed $187 million worldwide and received generally positive reviews from critics. It was nominated for four Academy Awards; Connery won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, as well as the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor – Motion Picture.

Title: Landman (TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Landman_(TV_series)
Excerpt: Landman is an American drama series created by Taylor Sheridan and Christian Wallace, inspired by the podcast series Boomtown hosted by Wallace. Starring Billy Bob Thornton as a landman for an oil company, the show premiered on November 17, 2024, on Paramount+. In March 2025, the series was renewed for a second season, which premiered on November 16, 2025. In December 2025, the series was renewed for a third season. Despite some elements igniting controversy, the series has been received positively by critics overall.