Title: The Romantics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Romantics
Excerpt: The Romantics are an American rock band formed in 1977 in Detroit, Michigan. The band's music is often categorized as power pop and new wave. They were influenced by 1950s American rock and roll, Detroit's MC5, the Stooges, early Bob Seger, Motown R&B, 1960s North American garage rock as well as the British Invasion rockers.
The Romantics achieved substantial popularity in the United States, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Canada, and Australia, with their two best-charting songs "What I Like About You", peaking at #49 in the US and #2 in Australia, and "Talking in Your Sleep", reaching #3 in the US, #1 in Canada, and #14 in Australia. The two songs have become mainstays on 1980s-focused, classic rock, and active rock radio stations.

Title: Sublime (band)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sublime_(band)
Excerpt: Sublime is an American ska punk band from Long Beach, California. Founded in 1988, the band's original lineup consisted of Bradley Nowell (vocals and guitar), Eric Wilson (bass), and Bud Gaugh (drums). Lou Dog, Nowell's dalmatian, was the mascot of the band. Nowell died of a heroin overdose in 1996, resulting in the band's breakup. In 1997, songs such as "What I Got", "Santeria", "Wrong Way", "Doin' Time", and "April 29, 1992 (Miami)" were released to U.S. radio.
Sublime released four studio albums, one live album, five compilation albums, three EPs, and one box set. Although their first two albums—40oz. to Freedom (1992) and Robbin' the Hood (1994)—were slightly popular in the United States, Sublime did not experience major commercial success until 1996 with their  self-titled third album, released two months after Nowell's death. Peaking at No. 13 on the Billboard 200 and being certified Diamond, it spawned hit singles "Santeria" and "What I Got", which reached number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart. As of 2009, the band has sold over 17 million albums worldwide, including about ten million in the U.S. alone. Michael "Miguel" Happoldt and Marshall "Ras MG" Goodman contributed to multiple Sublime songs.
In 2009, the surviving members attempted to reform the band with Rome Ramirez, a young guitarist and avowed Sublime fan from California. However, not long after performing at Cypress Hill's Smokeout Festival, a Los Angeles judge banned the new lineup from using the Sublime name as they needed permission from Nowell's estate, which owns the rights to the Sublime name. This prompted the lineup of Wilson, Gaugh, and Ramirez to change their name to Sublime with Rome, which went on to release three albums, although Gaugh left the group shortly after the release of their 2011 debut Yours Truly. Sublime with Rome remained active until 2024.
Wilson and Gaugh reunited once again in 2023, this time under the Sublime name, with Nowell's son Jakob taking over on vocals and guitar. This lineup recorded the band's fourth studio album, Until the Sun Explodes (2026), which the band states will be their final album.

Title: You Won't Get What You Want
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_Won%27t_Get_What_You_Want
Excerpt: You Won't Get What You Want is the fourth and final studio album by American rock band Daughters. It was released on October 26, 2018, through Ipecac Recordings, and is the band's only album since their 2013 reformation.
The album was released to universal critical acclaim, with many critics naming it one of the best albums of 2018.

Title: The Band Camino
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Band_Camino
Excerpt: The Band Camino (stylized as The Band CAMINO) is an American rock band. Established in Memphis, Tennessee, in 2015, the group is now based in Nashville.

Title: The Clearing (Wolf Alice album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Clearing_(Wolf_Alice_album)
Excerpt: The Clearing is the fourth studio album by English rock band Wolf Alice, released on 22 August 2025 through RCA and Columbia Records. The album follows the band's 2021 album Blue Weekend.