Title: Relationship between science and religion
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relationship_between_science_and_religion
Excerpt: The relationship between science and religion involves discussions that interconnect the study of the natural world, history, philosophy, and theology. Even though the ancient and medieval worlds did not have conceptions resembling the modern understandings of "science" or of "religion", certain elements of modern ideas on the subject recur throughout history. The pair-structured phrases "religion and science" and "science and religion" first emerged in the literature during  the 19th century. This coincided with the refining of "science" (from the studies of "natural philosophy") and of "religion" as distinct concepts in the preceding few centuries—partly due to professionalization of the sciences, the Protestant Reformation, colonization, and globalization. Since then the relationship between science and religion has been characterized in terms of "conflict", "harmony", "complexity", and "mutual independence", among others.
Both science and religion are complex social and cultural endeavors that may vary across cultures and change over time. Most scientific and technical innovations until the Scientific Revolution were achieved by societies organized by religious traditions. Ancient pagan, Islamic, and Christian scholars pioneered individual elements of the scientific method. Roger Bacon, often credited with formalizing the scientific method, was a Franciscan friar, and medieval Christians who studied nature emphasized natural explanations. Confucian thought, whether religious or non-religious in nature, has held different views of science over time. Many 21st-century Buddhists view science as complementary to their beliefs, although the philosophical integrity of such Buddhist modernism has been challenged. While the classification of the material world by the ancient Indians and Greeks into air, earth, fire, and water was more metaphysical, and figures like Anaxagoras questioned certain popular views of Greek divinities, medieval Middle Eastern scholars empirically classified materials.
Events in Europe such as the Galileo affair of the early 17th century, associated with the Scientific Revolution and the Age of Enlightenment, led scholars such as John William Draper to postulate (c. 1874) a conflict thesis, suggesting that religion and science have been in conflict methodologically, factually, and politically throughout history. Some contemporary philosophers and scientists, such as Richard Dawkins, Lawrence Krauss, Peter Atkins, and Donald Prothero subscribe to this thesis; however, such views have not been held by historians of science for a very long time.
Many scientists, philosophers, and theologians throughout history, from Augustine of Hippo to Thomas Aquinas to Francisco Ayala, Kenneth R. Miller, and Francis Collins, have seen compatibility or interdependence between religion and science. Biologist Stephen Jay Gould regarded religion and science as "non-overlapping magisteria", addressing fundamentally separate forms of knowledge and aspects of life. Some historians of science and mathematicians, including John Lennox, Thomas Berry, and Brian Swimme, propose an interconnection between science and religion, while others such as Ian Barbour believe there are even parallels. Public acceptance of scientific facts may sometimes be influenced by religious beliefs such as in the United States, where some reject the concept of evolution by natural selection, especially regarding Human beings. Nevertheless, the American National Academy of Sciences has written that "the evidence for evolution can be fully compatible with religious faith",
a view endorsed by many religious denominations.

Title: Person of color
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Person_of_color
Excerpt: Person of color (pl.: people of color or persons of color; abbreviated POC) is a term used to describe any person who is not considered "white". In its contemporary meaning, the term originated in, and is associated with, the United States. From the 2010s, however, it has been adopted in a limited fashion elsewhere in the Anglosphere (often as person of colour), including relatively limited usage in the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Ireland, and South Africa.
In the United States, the term is involved in the various definitions of non-whiteness, including African Americans, Asian Americans, Native Americans, Pacific Islander Americans, multiracial Americans, and some Latino Americans, though members of these communities may prefer to view themselves through their cultural identities rather than color-related terminology. The term, as used in the United States, emphasizes common experiences of systemic racism, which some communities have faced. The term may also be used with other collective categories of people such as "communities of color", "men of color" (MOC), "women of color" (WOC), or "librarians of color". The acronym "BIPOC" refers to "black, indigenous, and other people of color" and aims to emphasize the historic oppression of black and indigenous people. The term "colored" was originally equivalent in use to the term "person of color" in American English, but usage of the appellation "colored" in the Southern United States gradually came to be restricted to "Negroes", and it is now considered a racial pejorative. Elsewhere in the world, and in other dialects of English, the term may have entirely different connotations, however; for example, in South Africa, "Coloureds" refers to multiple multiracial ethnic groups and is sometimes applied to other groups in Southern Africa, such as the Basters of Namibia.

Title: List of Degrassi: The Next Generation characters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Degrassi:_The_Next_Generation_characters
Excerpt: Degrassi: The Next Generation is a Canadian teen drama television series created by Linda Schuyler and Yan Moore.
Degrassi: The Next Generation is the fourth entry of the Degrassi television franchise created by Schuyler and Kit Hood, and a revival of Degrassi Junior High and Degrassi High. In Canada, it premiered on CTV on October 14, 2001, and ended on MTV Canada on August 2, 2015.
Like its predecessors, it follows the lives of students attending the titular fictitious Toronto school and depicts some of the typical issues and challenges common to a teenager's life. It also features several cast members from the previous series in recurring adult roles.

The following is a list of characters who have appeared in the television series.

Title: Yash (actor)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yash_(actor)
Excerpt: Yash (pronounced [/jəʃ/]; born Naveen Kumar Gowda, 8 January 1986) is an Indian actor and producer who works in Kannada films. Known for his work in mass hero films, he is referred as "Rocking Star" in the media. One of the highest-paid actors of Kannada cinema, Yash is a recipient of several accolades including three Filmfare Awards South and five SIIMA Awards. 
Yash began his career with appearances in several television series in the 2000s. He made his film debut in 2007 with Jambada Hudugi. The 2008 romantic drama Moggina Manasu, for which he received the Filmfare Award for Best Supporting Actor, proved to be a breakthrough role for Yash.
His first film in a leading role, Rocky (2008), was poorly received by critics and a box office flop. Yash went on to establish himself as a leading actor of Kannada cinema with Googly, Raja Huli (both 2013), Gajakesari, Mr & Mrs Ramachari (both 2014), Masterpiece (2015) and Santhu Straight Forward (2016), all of which became commercial successes. The pan-India success of Prashanth Neel's KGF duology which consists of KGF: Chapter 1 (2018) and KGF: Chapter 2 (2022), helped Yash attain nationwide recognition. The former earned him the Filmfare Award for Best Actor – Kannada and the latter ranks as the highest-grossing Kannada film worldwide.
Yash is a philanthropist and promotes social causes through the Yasho Marga Foundation, a charitable foundation established by him and his wife. In addition to acting, he is a prominent celebrity endorser of several brands and products. He is married to actress Radhika Pandit, with whom he has two children.

Title: What We Do in the Shadows (TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/What_We_Do_in_the_Shadows_(TV_series)
Excerpt: What We Do in the Shadows is an American comedy horror mockumentary fantasy television series created by Jemaine Clement, first broadcast on FX on March 27, 2019, until concluding its run with the end of its sixth season on December 16, 2024. Based on the 2014 New Zealand film written and directed by Clement and Taika Waititi, both of whom act as executive producers, the series follows four vampire roommates on Staten Island, and stars Kayvan Novak, Matt Berry, Natasia Demetriou, Harvey Guillén, Mark Proksch, and Kristen Schaal.
What We Do in the Shadows is the second television series in the franchise after the spin-off Wellington Paranormal (2018–2022). Both shows share the same canon as the original film, with several characters from the film making appearances, including Clement's and Waititi's. The show received critical acclaim, particularly for its cast and writing, and 35 Emmy Award nominations, including four for Outstanding Comedy Series for its second, third, fifth and sixth seasons.