Title: Phonograph record
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phonograph_record
Excerpt: A phonograph record (also known as a gramophone record, especially in British English) or a vinyl record (for later varieties only) is a disc-shaped analog sound storage medium with an inscribed, modulated spiral groove. The groove usually starts near the outside edge and ends near the center of the disc. The stored sound information is made audible by playing the record on a phonograph (or "gramophone", "turntable", or "record player").
Records have been produced in different formats with playing times ranging from a few minutes to around 30 minutes per side. For about half a century, the discs were commonly made from shellac and these records typically ran at a rotational speed of 78 rpm, giving it the nickname "78s" ("seventy-eights"). "Vinyl" records made from polyvinyl chloride (PVC) were introduced in 1948, and by 1958 they became standard, replacing the old 78s and remain so to this day; they have since been produced in various sizes and speeds, most commonly 7-inch discs played at 45 rpm (typically for singles, also called 45s ("forty-fives")), and 12-inch discs played at 33+1⁄3 rpm (known as an LP, "long-playing records", typically for full-length albums) – the latter is the most prevalent format today.

Title: Mike Dean (music producer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mike_Dean_(music_producer)
Excerpt: Michael George Dean (born March 1, 1965) is an American audio engineer, record producer, and multi-instrumentalist. He is known for his synthesizer-heavy instrumentation and audio mixing for high-profile music industry artists. Beginning his career in 1992, he was first credited on releases for Texas-based rappers Scarface, Willie D, and Geto Boys, though he has since worked with hip-hop and pop artists including Kanye West, the Weeknd, Beyoncé, Kid Cudi, Travis Scott, Jay-Z, Drake, Madonna, Selena Gomez, Playboi Carti, and Lana Del Rey, among others. As a non-performing lead artist, Dean has released six solo studio albums: 4:20 (2020), 4:22 (2021), Smoke State 42222 (2022), 4:23 (2023), 424 (2024) and 425 (2025).

Title: Southside (music producer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southside_(music_producer)
Excerpt: Joshua Howard Luellen (born February 2, 1989), known professionally as Southside (also known as Sizzle or Yung Sizzle), is an American record producer, rapper and songwriter. Based in Atlanta, he is recognized in the music industry for his aggressive, trap-infused production work for prominent hip hop artists. After meeting hometown rapper Waka Flocka Flame, Luellen signed with his record label Brick Squad Monopoly—an imprint of Gucci Mane's 1017 Records—as in-house talent in 2010. Luellen and labelmate, fellow producer Lex Luger established the production team 808 Mafia that same year; it was credited on several commercially successful releases throughout the remaining decade. 
As a lead artist, Luellen signed with Epic Records to release his collaborative album with G Herbo, Swervo (2018), which peaked at number 15 on the Billboard 200. His 2022 single, "Hold That Heat" (with Future featuring Travis Scott) marked his first entry—at number 57—on the Billboard Hot 100. Despite not performing on both, he has released several mixtapes as a recording artist.

Title: Detail (music producer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Detail_(music_producer)
Excerpt: Noel Christopher Fisher (born October 9, 1978), professionally known as Detail, is an American record producer, singer, songwriter and rapper. Hailing from Detroit, Michigan, Detail is best known for producing several hit singles, including "Sexy Can I" by Ray J, "I'm So Paid" by Akon, "How to Love" by Lil Wayne, "Drunk in Love" and "711" by Beyoncé, and "We Dem Boyz" by Wiz Khalifa. He released his debut studio album, Noel in December 2015.

Title: Cardo (music producer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardo_(music_producer)
Excerpt: Ronald Nathan LaTour Jr. (born September 24, 1984), professionally known as Cardo Got Wings or simply Cardo, is an American record producer and rapper. He's known for his works with Playboi Carti, Kendrick Lamar, and Wiz Khalifa, among others. He also produced God's Plan by Drake, as well as Goosebumps by Travis Scott and Kendrick Lamar.