Title: Wild Bill Hickok
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wild_Bill_Hickok
Excerpt: James Butler Hickok (May 27, 1837 – August 2, 1876), better known as "Wild Bill" Hickok, was a folk hero of the American Old West known for his life on the frontier as a soldier, scout, lawman, cattle rustler, gunslinger, gambler, showman, and actor, and for his involvement in many famous gunfights. He earned a great deal of fame in his own time, much of it bolstered by the many outlandish and often fabricated tales told and printed about him, occasionally by himself. Some contemporaneous reports of his exploits are known to be fictitious, but they remain the basis of much of his fame and reputation.
Hickok was born and raised on a farm in Northern Illinois at a time when lawlessness and vigilante activity were rampant because of the influence of the "Banditti of the Prairie". Drawn to this criminal lifestyle, he headed west at age 18 as a fugitive from justice, working as a stagecoach driver and later as a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska. He served in and spied for the Union army during the American Civil War and gained publicity after the war as a scout, marksman, actor, and professional gambler. He was involved in several notable shootouts during the course of his life.
In 1876, Hickok was shot and killed while playing poker in a saloon in Deadwood, Dakota Territory (present-day South Dakota) by Jack McCall, an unsuccessful gambler. The hand of cards that he supposedly held at the time of his death has become known as the dead man's hand: two pairs; black aces and eights, and another unknown card, therefore having five cards in his hand at his death.
Hickok remains a popular figure of frontier history. Many historic sites and monuments commemorate his life, and he has been depicted numerous times in literature, film, and television. He is chiefly portrayed as a protagonist, although historical accounts of his actions are often controversial, and much of his career is known to have been exaggerated both by himself and by contemporary mythmakers. Hickok claimed to have shot numerous gunmen in his lifetime, and he killed six or seven, all between 1861 and 1871 according to Joseph G. Rosa, Hickok's biographer and the foremost authority on him.

Title: Mimic (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mimic_(film)
Excerpt: Mimic is a 1997 American science-fiction horror film directed by Guillermo del Toro in his English-language film debut, written by del Toro and Matthew Robbins, and based on Donald A. Wollheim's short story of the same name. The film stars Mira Sorvino, Jeremy Northam, Josh Brolin, F. Murray Abraham, and Charles S. Dutton. Its plot follows the creation of a genetically modified insect, designed to battle an infected cockroach infestation, that rapidly evolves and begins hunting humans.
Produced by Dimension Films and distributed by Miramax Films, Mimic premiered at the Fantafestival in June 1997, and released theatrically on August 22. It received middling reviews from critics, and only grossed $22.5 million on a budget of $30 million. Additionally, del Toro disowned the theatrical cut, stemming from clashes over creative differences with Dimension/Miramax heads Harvey and Bob Weinstein, later releasing a director's cut on Blu-ray in 2011. Two direct-to-video sequels followed: Mimic 2 (2001) and Mimic 3: Sentinel (2003).

Title: List of actors considered for the James Bond character
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_actors_considered_for_the_James_Bond_character
Excerpt: This is a list of actors who were considered for the role of James Bond, both officially and unofficially, but ultimately did not portray Bond. For a comprehensive list of the actors who have actually played the role of James Bond in the official films, please refer to the separate list of James Bond films.

Title: Love, Wedding, Marriage
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Love,_Wedding,_Marriage
Excerpt: Love, Wedding, Marriage is a 2011 American romantic comedy film directed by Dermot Mulroney in his feature film directorial debut. It stars Mandy Moore, Kellan Lutz, James Brolin, Jane Seymour and Christopher Lloyd. It was released on June 3, 2011.

Title: Accidental Love
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Accidental_Love
Excerpt: Accidental Love is a 2015 American romantic comedy film directed by David O. Russell (under a pseudonym) and written by Kristin Gore, Matt Silverstein, and Dave Jeser, based on Gore's 2004 novel Sammy's Hill. The film stars Jessica Biel and Jake Gyllenhaal, and includes Kirstie Alley in her final film role.
Production started in 2008 under the title Nailed, but filming was frequently halted due to financial difficulties, leading to Russell quitting the project in 2010. The film was completed without his involvement and he has since disowned it, leaving the finished product credited to "Stephen Greene". The film was released online on February 10, 2015, before a limited release on March 20, 2015, by Millennium Entertainment. Accidental Love was panned by critics and was a massive financial failure, grossing a mere $139,436 against a $26 million production budget.