Title: David Foster
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Foster
Excerpt: David Walter Foster (born November 1, 1949) is a Canadian and American record producer, composer, arranger, and musician. He has won 16 Grammy Awards from 45 nominations across four decades (the 1970s, 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s). Across the last 50 years, Foster has composed and produced some of the most successful songs of each decade, with multiple songs reaching the top spot on the Billboard Hot 100 and other individual genre charts. He has also been nominated three times in the Best Original song category at the Academy Awards.
Foster has contributed to material for prominent music industry artists across various genres. Some of the notable songs he has been involved with include: "I Will Always Love You", "I Have Nothing", "The Prayer", "After the Love Has Gone", "Hard to Say I'm Sorry", "Hard Habit to Break", "St. Elmo's Fire (Man in Motion)", "Glory of Love", "Winter Games", "Grown-Up Christmas List", "Best of Me", "Look What You've Done to Me", "She's a Beauty", "Somewhere", and "Wildflower".
Foster served as senior vice president of Warner Music Group from 1997, then he chaired Verve Records from 2012 to 2016.
In recent years, Foster composed Boop! The Musical, which premiered in Chicago in 2023 and debuted on Broadway in 2025. He was nominated for a Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Music.

Title: Neo Fascio
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neo_Fascio
Excerpt: Neo Fascio is the second album by Japanese singer Kyosuke Himuro. The album explores the theme of fascism through music, emphasizing the dangers associated with it.

Title: Japan–United States relations
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japan%E2%80%93United_States_relations
Excerpt: International relations between Japan and the United States began in the late 18th and early 19th century with the 1852–1855 diplomatic but force-backed missions of U.S. ship captains James Glynn and Matthew C. Perry to the Tokugawa shogunate. Following the Meiji Restoration, the countries maintained relatively cordial relations. Potential disputes were resolved. Japan acknowledged American control of Hawaii and the Philippines, and the United States reciprocated regarding Korea. Disagreements about Japanese immigration to the U.S. were resolved in 1907. The two were allies against Germany in World War I.
From as early as 1879 and continuing through most of the first four decades of the 20th century, influential Japanese statesmen such as Prince Iesato Tokugawa (1863–1940) and Baron Eiichi Shibusawa (1840–1931) led a major Japanese domestic and international movement advocating goodwill and mutual respect with the United States. Their friendship with the U.S. included allying with seven U.S. presidents – Grant, Theodore Roosevelt, Taft, Wilson, Harding, Hoover, and Franklin D. Roosevelt. It was only after the passing of this older generation of diplomats and humanitarians, along with the evidence that many Americans believed all Asians to be alike with President Calvin Coolidge's signing of the Immigration Act of 1924 that Japanese militarists were able to gain control and pressure Japan into joining with the Axis powers in World War II.
Starting in 1931, tensions escalated. Japanese actions against China in 1931 and especially after 1937 during the Second Sino-Japanese War caused the United States to cut off the oil and steel Japan required for their military conquests. Japan responded with attacks on the Allies, including the attack on Pearl Harbor, which heavily damaged the US naval base at Pearl Harbor, opening the Pacific theater of World War II. The United States made a massive investment in naval power and systematically destroyed Japan's offensive capabilities while island hopping across the Pacific. To force a surrender, the Americans strategically bombed Japanese cities, culminating in the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945. Japan surrendered, and was subjected to seven years of military occupation by the United States, during which the Americans under General Douglas MacArthur eliminated militarism and rebuilt the country's economic and political systems.
In the 1950s and 1960s Japan entered into a military alliance with the United States, and experienced unprecedented economic growth by sheltering under the U.S. nuclear umbrella, taking full advantage of U.S.-backed free trade schemes, and supplying American wars in Korea and Vietnam. Japanese exports to the United States dramatically expanded in the postwar period, with Japanese automobiles and consumer electronics being especially popular. From the late 20th century and onwards, the U.S. economy and Japanese economy have been closely linked through trade, foreign investment, and bilateral coordination. The U.S. government generally considers Japan to be one of its closest allies while American public opinion surveys maintain an overwhelmingly positive view of Japan.

Title: WALL-E
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WALL-E
Excerpt: WALL-E (stylized with an interpunct as WALL·E) is a 2008 American animated science fiction film directed by Andrew Stanton, who co-wrote the screenplay with Jim Reardon, based on a story by Stanton and Pete Docter. Produced by Pixar Animation Studios for Walt Disney Pictures, the film stars the voices of Ben Burtt, Elissa Knight, Jeff Garlin, John Ratzenberger, Kathy Najimy, and Sigourney Weaver, with Fred Willard in a live-action role. The film follows a solitary robot named WALL-E on a future, uninhabitable, deserted Earth in 2805, left to clean up garbage. He is visited by a robot called EVE sent from the starship Axiom, with whom he falls in love and pursues across the galaxy.
After directing Finding Nemo, Stanton felt Pixar had created believable simulations of underwater physics and was willing to direct a film set largely in space. WALL-E has minimal dialogue in its early sequences; many of the characters in the film do not have voices, but instead communicate with body language and robotic sounds that were designed by Burtt. The film incorporates various topics including human environmental impact and concerns, global catastrophic risk, consumerism, corporatocracy, waste management, obesity/sedentary lifestyles, and nostalgia. It is also Pixar's first animated film featuring live-action segments. Thomas Newman composed the film's musical score. The film cost $180 million to produce, a record-breaking sum for an animated film at the time. Following Pixar tradition, WALL-E was paired with a short film titled Presto for its theatrical release.
WALL-E premiered at the Greek Theatre in Los Angeles on June 23, 2008, and was released in the United States on June 27. The film received widespread acclaim for its animation, characters, themes, visuals, score, sound design, screenplay and use of minimal dialogue. It was also commercially successful, grossing $532 million worldwide and becoming the ninth-highest grossing film of 2008. It won several awards, including the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature alongside five additional nominations. The film was widely named by critics and organizations, including the American Film Institute and National Board of Review, as one of the best films of 2008 and among the greatest animated films ever made. In 2021, WALL-E was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".

Title: China–Japan relations
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China%E2%80%93Japan_relations
Excerpt: The relationship between China and Japan spans thousands of years. Japan has deep historical and cultural ties with China; cultural contacts throughout its history have strongly influenced Japan—including its writing system, architecture, cuisine, culture, literature, religion, philosophy, and law. China, in return, has been deeply influenced by Japan. After the Meiji Restoration in 1868, the Empire of Japan embraced Westernization and saw the Qing dynasty as "non-Chinese", leading to the First Sino-Japanese War where Japan emerged victorious and gained control of Taiwan. In the 20th century, Japan pursued an increasingly expansionist policy towards China. In 1931, Japan invaded Manchuria, establishing the puppet state of Manchukuo, and invaded other parts of China in 1937, precipitating the Second Sino-Japanese War which was marked by numerous Japanese war crimes. Japan surrendered in 1945, leading China to regain all lost territories. After the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949, relations were tense, with Japan continuing to recognize the Republic of China which had retreated to Taiwan, though informal ties with the PRC existed.
Japan normalized relations with the PRC in 1972 with the Japan–China Joint Communiqué, recognizing PRC as the only legitimate representative of China. The Treaty of Peace and Friendship between Japan and China was signed in 1978. During this time, trade between the two nations grew significantly. Relations further improved when Japanese emperor Akihito visited China in 1992 and Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama issued a statement in 1995 apologizing for Japan's actions during World War II. Ties between the two nations deteriorated after anti-Japanese demonstrations in 2005. The 21st century marked a changing balance of power between the two countries; Japan's economy stagnated following the Lost Decades that started in the 1990s, while China's economic and military power grew significantly after the beginning of reform and opening up in 1978. In 2010, China's economy overtook Japan's. Relations deteriorated in 2012, triggered by the Japanese government's purchase of the disputed Senkaku Islands from their private owner, which led to anti-Japanese protests. Relations started to improve in the late 2010s and early 2020s, but deteriorated in 2025 and 2026 after comments made by Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi regarding a potential defense of Taiwan.
In contemporary times, China and Japan are among the world's largest economies and major trading partners, with bilateral trade reaching $322 billion in 2025; China has been Japan's largest trading partner since 2005. China is the largest source of tourists and foreign students to Japan. Despite strong economic ties, relations are strained due to geopolitical disputes, wartime history, and the dispute about the Senkaku (Diaoyu) Islands, which are administered by Japan but claimed by China. Additionally, Japan's security concerns over Taiwan, controversies over Japan's wartime actions including the Nanjing Massacre and Unit 731, visits by Japanese politicians to the Yasukuni Shrine, and differing historical narratives continue to fuel tensions. Public opinion surveys show that overwhelming majority of people in both countries have negative views of each other. While efforts have been made to improve relations, longstanding disagreements remain.