Title: Antônio Silva (fighter)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ant%C3%B4nio_Silva_(fighter)
Excerpt: Antônio Silva (born 14 September 1979) is a Brazilian retired professional mixed martial artist and kickboxer who formerly competed in the Heavyweight division. Silva has competed for the UFC, Strikeforce, EliteXC, Cage Rage, Fight Nights Global, World Victory Road, K-1 HERO'S, and Cage Warriors. He is the former EliteXC Heavyweight Champion, Cage Rage World Heavyweight Champion, and Cage Warriors Super Heavyweight Champion.

Title: Soa Palelei
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soa_Palelei
Excerpt: Soa Palelei (born 12 July 1977) is an Australian retired mixed martial artist. A professional from 2002 until 2015, he most notably competed for the Ultimate Fighting Championship and PRIDE Fighting Championships.

Title: Eric Esch
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_Esch
Excerpt: Eric David Scott Esch (born August 3, 1966), better known by his nickname "Butterbean", is an American television personality and retired professional boxer, kickboxer, mixed martial artist, and professional wrestler. A competitor in the heavyweight and super heavyweight divisions, he is an overall four-time world champion across the four sports. Esch became a professional boxer in 1994 after a successful stint on the Toughman Contest scene and went on to capture the World Athletic Association (WAA) heavyweight and IBA super heavyweight championships. From 2003, he regularly fought as a kickboxer and mixed martial artist, notably in K-1 and the Pride Fighting Championships. Esch's combined fight record is 97–24–5 with 65 knockouts and 9 submissions.

Title: Matt Mitrione
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matt_Mitrione
Excerpt: Matt Mitrione (born July 15, 1978) is an American retired mixed martial artist and former American football player, who competed for both the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), and most recently for Bellator MMA. Prior to embarking on an MMA career, Mitrione played college football at Purdue University, and he turned pro and played in the National Football League (NFL) with the New York Giants and the Minnesota Vikings. He was a featured fighter on The Ultimate Fighter: Heavyweights. A former Heavyweight contender, he has several wins over notable MMA fighters, including Kimbo Slice, Derrick Lewis, Roy Nelson, Phil De Fries, and Fedor Emelianenko.

Title: Giant Silva
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giant_Silva
Excerpt: Paulo César da Silva (born July 21, 1963) is a Brazilian former national basketball player for the Brazilian national basketball team and later mixed martial artist and professional wrestler, better known by his ring name Giant Silva. He stands 2.18 m (7 ft 2 in) and weighs 175 kg (386 lb). A super-heavyweight wrestler, he was both a face and a heel in several professional wrestling promotions. Known for his great height, in 2014 he was described as the sixth tallest professional wrestler in history.