Title: Linkin Park
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linkin_Park
Excerpt: Linkin Park is an American rock band formed in Agoura Hills, California, in 1996. The band's current lineup consists of vocalist/rhythm guitarist/keyboardist Mike Shinoda, lead guitarist Brad Delson, DJ/turntablist Joe Hahn, bassist Dave Farrell, vocalist Emily Armstrong, and drummer Colin Brittain. The lineup for the band's first seven studio albums included lead vocalist Chester Bennington and drummer Rob Bourdon; after Bennington's suicide in July 2017, the band endured a seven-year hiatus, during which Bourdon chose to depart from the band. In September 2024, Linkin Park's reformation was announced along with the addition of Armstrong and Brittain.
Categorized mainly as alternative rock and nu metal, Linkin Park's earlier music spanned a fusion of heavy metal and hip-hop, with their later music featuring more electronica and pop elements. Linkin Park rose to international fame with their debut studio album, Hybrid Theory (2000), which became certified Diamond by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Released during the peak of the nu metal scene, the album's singles' heavy airplay on MTV led to the singles "One Step Closer", "Crawling", and "In the End" all charting highly on the US Mainstream Rock chart. The lattermost also crossed over to the number two spot on the nation's Billboard Hot 100. Their second album, Meteora (2003), continued the band's success. The band's third album, Minutes to Midnight (2007), marked a change in sound. By the end of the decade, Linkin Park was among the most successful and popular rock acts.
The band continued to explore a wider variation of musical types on their fourth album, A Thousand Suns (2010), layering their music with more electronic sounds. The band's fifth album, Living Things (2012), combined musical elements from all of their previous records. Their sixth album, The Hunting Party (2014), returned to a heavier alternative metal/rock sound, while their seventh album, One More Light (2017), was a substantially more pop/pop rock-oriented record. The band's eighth album, From Zero (2024), returned to more of their original sound while also incorporating musical elements from all of their previous records.
Linkin Park is one of the best-selling music acts of all time, having sold over 100 million records worldwide. They have won two Grammy Awards, seven American Music Awards, four Billboard Music Awards, four MTV Video Music Awards, 10 MTV Europe Music Awards, and three World Music Awards. In 2003, MTV2 named Linkin Park the sixth-greatest band of the music video era and the third-best of the new millennium. Billboard ranked Linkin Park No. 19 on the Best Artists of the Decade list. In 2012, the band was voted as the greatest artist of the 2000s in a Bracket Madness poll on VH1. In 2014, the band was declared "the Biggest Rock Band in the World Right Now" by Kerrang!.

Title: The Darkness (band)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Darkness_(band)
Excerpt: The Darkness are a British hard rock band formed in Lowestoft in 2000. The band consists of the brothers Justin (vocals, guitar) and Dan Hawkins (guitar), as well as Frankie Poullain (bass) and Rufus Tiger Taylor (drums).
The Darkness came to prominence with the release of their debut album, Permission to Land, in 2003. Backed by the singles "I Believe in a Thing Called Love", "Growing on Me", "Get Your Hands off My Woman", and "Love Is Only a Feeling", the album was certified quadruple platinum in the United Kingdom, with sales of over 1.3 million. In 2004 the band won three Brit Awards: Best British Group, Best British Rock Act, and Best British Album. After extensive touring in support of their debut album, Poullain left the band in 2005, and was replaced by former guitar technician Richie Edwards. The band's second studio album, One Way Ticket to Hell... and Back, was released in November 2005. The following year, Justin Hawkins departed from the band after successfully completing a course of rehabilitation from alcohol and cocaine abuse. This, combined with the poor sales of the album, resulted in Atlantic dropping the band in October 2006. After the split, the remaining members formed Stone Gods, and continued to perform and record without Hawkins, who subsequently fronted his own project, Hot Leg.
In March 2011, the Darkness announced reunion shows, with original bassist Frankie Poullain, including Download Festival 2011, and the Isle of Wight Festival 2012. Their third album, Hot Cakes, was released in August 2012. Original drummer Ed Graham then left the band. A fourth studio album, Last of Our Kind, was released in 2015. A fifth album, Pinewood Smile, was released in 2017, followed by a live album, Live at Hammersmith, in 2018. Their sixth studio album, Easter Is Cancelled, was released in 2019. After the COVID-19 pandemic put a stop to their world tour in 2020, the band ended the year with a one-off streamed live show titled "Streaming of a White Christmas", which was also recorded as a new live album. Their seventh studio album, Motorheart, was released in 2021, followed by an extensive UK tour through November and December.
The Darkness performed at the 2025 VE Day Celebration in Horse Guards Parade.

Title: Machine Head (band)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_Head_(band)
Excerpt: Machine Head is an American heavy metal band from Oakland, California. The band was formed in 1991 by vocalist/guitarist Robb Flynn, who remains the only original member of the band. Machine Head's aggressive musicianship made it one of the pioneering bands in the new wave of American heavy metal. Its current lineup comprises Flynn, bassist Jared MacEachern, drummer Matt Alston and guitarist Reece Scruggs. Bassist Adam Duce, guitarists Logan Mader, Ahrue Luster, Phil Demmel and Wacław Kiełtyka, and drummers Tony Costanza, Chris Kontos and Dave McClain are former members of the band; Mader and Kontos toured with the band in 2019 and 2020 as part of the 25th anniversary tour for its first album, Burn My Eyes (1994).
Machine Head's first four albums earned the band a growing fan base in Europe; however, the band would not have success in the United States until later releases. The band drew controversy with its fourth album, Supercharger (2001), which was released three weeks after the September 11 attacks; its only single, "Crashing Around You", and its music video (which featured burning buildings) was pulled from all media outlets. The band nearly disbanded in 2002 after negotiating off its label Roadrunner Records as a result of the controversy, however the band would eventually re-sign with the label.
Having experimented with elements of groove metal and nu metal in its early releases, Machine Head changed to a more traditional thrash metal sound and longer songs with its sixth album, The Blackening (2007), which drew critical acclaim and was chosen as Album of the Decade by Metal Hammer in 2010; the album's first single, "Aesthetics of Hate", also earned a Grammy Award nomination. The band achieved similar success with its next two albums, Unto the Locust (2011) and Bloodstone & Diamonds (2014), before again experimenting with nu metal on its ninth album, Catharsis (2018). Machine Head reverted to its groove and thrash metal roots on the follow-up album, Of Kingdom and Crown (2022), which was its first concept album. Their latest studio album is 2025's Unatoned.
Machine Head has released eleven studio albums, two live albums, one video album, 13 singles and 15 music videos. Four of the band's studio albums have been certified silver in the United Kingdom, and the band's highest peak on the Billboard 200 came with Bloodstone & Diamonds at number 21. As of 2013, the band has sold over three million records worldwide.

Title: List of musician and band name etymologies
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_musician_and_band_name_etymologies
Excerpt: This is a list of band names, with their name origins explained.

Title: Crown the Empire
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crown_the_Empire
Excerpt: Crown the Empire is an American metalcore band from Dallas, Texas, formed in 2010. The band comprises vocalist Andrew "Andy Leo" Rockhold and guitarist Brandon Hoover. They are currently signed to  Rise Records and have released five studio albums. Their most recent studio album, Dogma, was released on April 28, 2023.