Title: List of science fiction novels
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_science_fiction_novels
Excerpt: This is a list of science fiction novels, novel series and collections of linked short stories. It includes modern novels, as well as novels written before the term "science fiction" was in common use. This list includes novels not marketed as SF but still considered to be substantially science fiction in content by some critics, such as Nineteen Eighty-Four. As such, it is an inclusive list, not an exclusive list based on other factors such as level of notability or literary quality. Books are listed in alphabetical order by title, ignoring the leading articles "A", "An" and "The". Novel series are alphabetical by author-designated name or, if there is none, the title of the first novel in the series or some other reasonable designation.

Lists of novel titles by various differentiators can be found at Category:Science fiction novels.

Title: The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Chronicles_of_Thomas_Covenant
Excerpt: The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant is a series of ten high fantasy novels written by American author  Stephen R. Donaldson. The series began as a trilogy, The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever. This was followed by another trilogy, The Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, and finally a tetralogy, The Last Chronicles of Thomas Covenant.
The main character of the stories is Thomas Covenant, an embittered and cynical writer afflicted with leprosy and shunned by society but fated to become the heroic savior of the Land, an alternate world. In ten novels, published between 1977 and 2013, he struggles against Lord Foul "the Despiser" who attempts to escape the bondage of the physical universe and wreak revenge upon his arch-enemy, "the Creator".

Title: Steven Erikson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steven_Erikson
Excerpt: Steve Rune Lundin (born October 7, 1959), known by his pseudonym Steven Erikson, is a Canadian novelist who was educated and trained as both an archaeologist and anthropologist.
He is best known for his ten-volume spanning epic fantasy series Malazan Book of the Fallen, which began with the publication of Gardens of the Moon (1999) and was completed with the publication of The Crippled God (2011). By 2012 over 1 million copies of the series had been sold worldwide, and over 3 million copies by 2018. SF Site has called the series "the most significant work of epic fantasy since Donaldson's Chronicles of Thomas Covenant," and Fantasy Book Review described it as "the best fantasy series of recent times." Fellow author Glen Cook has called the series a masterwork, while Stephen R. Donaldson has praised him for his approach to the fantasy genre.
Set in the Malazan world, Erikson has commenced a prequel trilogy, The Kharkanas Trilogy, seven novellas, and a short story. He is currently working on a four-part sequel series, The Tales of Witness, the first book of which, titled The God is Not Willing, was published in 2021, followed by the second installment, No Life Forsaken, released in October 2025.
His foray into science fiction has produced a comedic trilogy, the Willful Child Trilogy, a spoof on Star Trek and other tropes common in the genre, and a First Contact novel titled Rejoice, a Knife To the Heart, published in 2018.

Title: White Gold Wielder
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_Gold_Wielder
Excerpt: White Gold Wielder is a fantasy novel by American  writer Stephen R. Donaldson, the final book of the second trilogy of The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant series.

Title: Paranoid fiction
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paranoid_fiction
Excerpt: Paranoid fiction is a work of literature that explores the subjective nature of reality and how it can be manipulated by forces in power. These forces can be external, such as a totalitarian government, or they can be internal, such as a character's mental illness or refusal to accept the harshness of the world they are in.