Title: Battle of Stalingrad
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Stalingrad
Excerpt: The Battle of Stalingrad was a major battle on the Eastern Front of World War II in which Nazi Germany and its Axis allies fought the Soviet Union for control of the city of Stalingrad (now Volgograd) in southern Russia. Marked by intense close-quarters combat and heavy civilian losses during aerial bombardment, the battle is considered the largest and deadliest urban battle in military history and the deadliest battle in World War II. By the end of the fighting, the German 6th Army had been destroyed, the 4th Panzer Army had suffered severe losses, and Army Group B was routed. The defeat ended Germany’s 1942 summer offensive and passed the strategic initiative on the Eastern Front to the Soviet Union. The Soviet victory at Stalingrad is generally regarded as the pivotal turning point of the European theatre of the war.
Both sides placed great strategic importance on the city of Stalingrad, as it was one of the largest industrial centres of the Soviet Union and an important transport hub on the Volga River. After more than a year of intense fighting along a vast front, Germany's fuel supplies had dwindled, creating a strategic need to advance into the Caucasus to capture the Soviet oil fields. Controlling Stalingrad would provide a supply route for this campaign while preventing Soviet shipments along the Volga. The city also held significant symbolic importance because it bore the name of Joseph Stalin, the Soviet supreme leader.
The German military first clashed with the Red Army's Stalingrad Front on the distant approaches to the city on 17 July. On 23 August, the 6th Army and elements of the 4th Panzer Army launched their offensive with support from intensive bombing raids by the Luftwaffe, which reduced much of the city to rubble.
As German forces advanced into the city, the battle degenerated into house-to-house fighting, which escalated drastically as both sides continued pouring in reinforcements. By mid-November, the Germans, at great cost, had pushed the Soviet defenders back into narrow zones along the Volga's west bank. However, winter set in and conditions became particularly brutal, with temperatures often dropping tens of degrees below freezing, and the fighting bogged down into brutal trench warfare.
On 19 November, the Red Army launched Operation Uranus, a two-pronged counterattack targeting the Romanian armies protecting the 6th Army's flanks. The Axis flanks were overrun and the 6th Army was encircled. Hitler, who exercised daily operational command, was determined to hold the city for Germany at all costs and forbade the 6th Army to try a breakout; instead, attempts were made to supply it by air and to break the encirclement from outside. The Soviets managed to prevent the Germans from making enough airdrops to their trapped armies, but heavy fighting continued for another two months. On 2 February 1943, the 6th Army, having exhausted its ammunition and food, finally capitulated, making it the first of Hitler's field armies to surrender.
In modern Russia and a number of the post-Soviet states, the legacy of the Red Army's victory at Stalingrad is commemorated among the Days of Military Honour of the Great Patriotic War. It is also well known in many other countries that belonged to the Allied powers, and has thus become ingrained in popular culture.

Title: Battle of Manila (1945)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Manila_(1945)
Excerpt: The Battle of Manila (3 February – 3 March  1945) was a major battle during the Philippine campaign of 1944–45, during the Second World War. It was fought by forces from both the United States and the Philippines against Imperial Japanese troops in Manila, the capital city of the Philippines. The month-long battle, which resulted in the death of at least 100,000 civilians and the complete devastation of the city, was the scene of the worst urban fighting fought by American forces in the Pacific theater. During the battle, Japanese forces committed mass murder against Filipino civilians, while American firepower also killed many people. The fierce resistance of Japanese troops entrenched in many of the city's landmarks, along with the usage of massed artillery barrages by American forces to dislodge them, destroyed much of Manila's architectural and cultural heritage dating back to the city's founding. Often referred to as "the Stalingrad of Asia", the battle is widely considered to be one of the most destructive urban battles ever fought, as well as the single largest urban battle ever fought by American forces. 
The battle caused Manila to become one of the most devastated capital cities of the Second World War, alongside Berlin and Warsaw. The Allied victory contributed greatly to ending almost three years of Japanese military occupation in the Philippines (1942–1945). Manila's capture was seen as General Douglas MacArthur's key to victory in the campaign to liberate the islands, although heavy fighting continued in Luzon (and elsewhere in the Philippines) until the end of the war in August 1945. It is, to date, the last battle fought within Manila.

Title: Philippine Army
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philippine_Army
Excerpt: The Philippine Army (PA; Filipino: Hukbong Katihan ng Pilipinas) is the main, oldest and largest branch of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), responsible for ground warfare. As of 2025, it had an estimated strength of 110,000 personnel. The service branch was established on December 21, 1935, as the Army of the Philippines.
The Philippine Army has been engaged in numerous combat operations, including the ongoing Communist rebellion in the Philippines, the Moro conflict and, alongside other national military forces, in conflicts of international scope and on United Nations peacekeeping missions in various parts of the world.

Title: List of equipment of the Philippine Army
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_equipment_of_the_Philippine_Army
Excerpt: This is a list of equipment used by the Philippine Army, the branch of the Armed Forces of the Philippines that specializes in ground warfare. The service has made use of its existing equipment to fulfill its mandate while modernization projects are underway. Republic Act No. 7898 declares the policy of the State to modernize the military to a level where it can effectively and fully perform its constitutional mandate to uphold the sovereignty and preserve the patrimony of the republic. The law, as amended, has set conditions that should be satisfied when the defense department procures major equipment and weapon systems for the army.

Title: List of recipients of the United States Presidential Unit Citation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_recipients_of_the_United_States_Presidential_Unit_Citation
Excerpt: This is a list of recipients of the United States Presidential Unit Citation. This list will likely never be a complete list of the units that have been awarded the citation due to the difficulty of finding records in various archives and the recent awards given to units that might not have presently been listed.