Title: Ian Hunter (singer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ian_Hunter_(singer)
Excerpt: Ian Hunter Patterson (born 3 June 1939) is an English singer, songwriter and musician. He is best known as the lead vocalist of the rock band Mott the Hoople, from its inception in 1969 to its dissolution in 1974, and at the time of its 2009, 2013, and 2019 reunions. Hunter was a musician and songwriter before joining Mott the Hoople, and continued in this vein after he left the band. He embarked on a solo career despite ill health and disillusionment with commercial success, and often collaborated with Mick Ronson.
Mott the Hoople achieved some commercial success, and attracted a small but devoted fan base. As a solo artist, Hunter charted with lesser-known but more wide-ranging works outside the rock mainstream. His best-known solo songs are "Once Bitten, Twice Shy", later covered by Great White, and "England Rocks", which was modified to "Cleveland Rocks" and then covered by the Presidents of the United States of America, and became one of the theme songs used for the American TV series The Drew Carey Show.

Title: Lady Colin Campbell
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lady_Colin_Campbell
Excerpt: Georgia Arianna, Lady Colin Campbell (née Ziadie; born 17 August 1949), also known as Lady C, is a British Jamaican author, socialite, and television personality who has published seven unauthorised books about the British royal family. These include biographies of Diana, Princess of Wales (which was on The New York Times Best Seller list in 1992), of Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, and of Meghan, Duchess of Sussex and Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex.
Born into the Ziadie family, a prominent family of Lebanese descent, she grew up in the Colony of Jamaica as the child of a wealthy department store owner. Campbell was born with a genital malformation and, following the medical advice of that time, was raised as a boy despite being female. She moved to New York City to attend the Fashion Institute of Technology and began working as a model. In 1970 she had corrective surgery for her congenital vaginal malformation, funded by her grandmother. She legally changed her name from George William Ziadie to Georgia Arianna Ziadie, receiving a new birth certificate. While in the United States, she met and married Lord Colin Ivar Campbell, the second son of Ian Campbell, 11th Duke of Argyll and Louise Hollingsworth Morris Clews. The marriage quickly soured and they divorced fifteen months later following a scandal surrounding her physical characteristics at birth.
As well as being a royal biographer and a royal commentator, Campbell is a reality star who has made appearances on Comedy Nation, I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!, Celebs Go Dating, Salvage Hunters, Through the Keyhole, Good Morning Britain, and Celebs on the Farm. She admits to liking the recognition.
Campbell is the châtelaine of Castle Goring in Worthing, the ancestral seat of the Shelley baronets of Castle Goring. She ventured into reality television to cover the castle's renovation costs, which she called "whoring for Goring". She purchased the mansion in 2013.

Title: 2022 deaths in the United Kingdom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_deaths_in_the_United_Kingdom
Excerpt: The following notable deaths in the United Kingdom occurred in 2022. Names are reported under the date of death, in alphabetical order as set out in WP:NAMESORT.
A typical entry reports information in the following sequence:
Name, age, country of citizenship at birth and subsequent nationality (if applicable), what subject was noted for, year of birth (if known), and reference.

Title: 2023 deaths in the United Kingdom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023_deaths_in_the_United_Kingdom
Excerpt: The following notable deaths of British people occurred in 2023. Names are reported under the date of death, in alphabetical order. A typical entry reports information in the following sequence:

Name, age, citizenship at birth, nationality (in addition to British), or/and home nation, what subject was noted for, birth year, cause of death (if known), and reference.

Title: 2025 deaths in the United Kingdom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_deaths_in_the_United_Kingdom
Excerpt: The following notable deaths of British people occurred in 2025. Names are reported under the date of death, in alphabetical order. A typical entry reports information in the following sequence:

Name, age, citizenship at birth, nationality (in addition to British), or/and home nation, what subject was noted for, birth year, cause of death (if known), and reference.