Title: Say You Will (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Say_You_Will_(album)
Excerpt: Say You Will is the seventeenth and final studio album by British-American rock band Fleetwood Mac, released on 15 April 2003. It followed 1995's Time and was their first album since 1970 without vocalist/keyboardist Christine McVie as a full member following her departure in 1998, although she participated in some songs as a guest musician; it would be her last time being involved with the band in a studio capacity before her death in 2022. Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks shared keyboard duties throughout the album.
This was the band's last full album with Buckingham before his dismissal from the group in 2018, although he participated in their 2013 extended play and the 2017 Lindsey Buckingham Christine McVie album which included Mick Fleetwood and John McVie.
Say You Will was the first studio Fleetwood Mac album to peak in the top three in the US since 1982's Mirage.  The album debuted at No. 3 with sales of 218,000, spent two months within the top 40, and was certified Gold by the RIAA in July 2003 for 500,000 copies shipped in the US. In the UK, the album peaked at No. 6 and was certified Gold by the BPI in May 2003 for 100,000 copies shipped.
A limited-edition version of the album was issued at the same time, featuring two live tracks ("Peacekeeper" and "Say You Will"), two additional studio tracks (Nicks' "Not Make Believe" and Buckingham's cover of Bob Dylan's "Love Minus Zero/No Limit"), an expanded booklet and poster.

Title: Never Can Say Goodbye
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Never_Can_Say_Goodbye
Excerpt: "Never Can Say Goodbye" is a song by American group the Jackson 5 from their fifth studio album, Maybe Tomorrow (1971). It was released on March 16, 1971, by Motown as the album's first single.
The song was written by Clifton Davis and produced by Hal Davis. The song was originally written and intended for the Supremes; however, Motown decided it would be better for the Jackson 5. It has been covered numerous times, most notably in 1974 by Gloria Gaynor and in 1987 by British synth-pop duo the Communards.

Title: Con te partirò
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Con_te_partir%C3%B2
Excerpt: "Con te partirò" (Italian: [kon ˈte ppartiˈrɔ]; "With You I Shall Depart") is an Italian song written by Francesco Sartori (music) and Lucio Quarantotto (lyrics). It was first performed by Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli at the 1995 Sanremo Music Festival and recorded on his album of the same year, Bocelli. The single was first released as an A-side single with "Vivere" in 1995, topping the charts, first in France, where it became one of the best-selling singles of all-time, and then in Belgium, breaking the all-time record sales there.
A second version of the song, sung partly in English, released in 1996 as "Time to Say Goodbye", paired Bocelli with British soprano Sarah Brightman, and achieved even greater success, topping charts all across Europe, including Germany, where it became the biggest-selling single in history. Brightman and Bocelli produced a version with Brightman singing in German and Bocelli in Italian, with this version being available on the CD Time to Say Goodbye. That version alone has now sold more than 12 million copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling singles of all time. The song is also known in its Spanish-language version "Por ti volaré" ("For You I Shall Fly").

Title: Kiss and Say Goodbye
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kiss_and_Say_Goodbye
Excerpt: "Kiss and Say Goodbye" is a 1976 song by American R&B vocal group the Manhattans. It was written by group member Winfred Lovett, the bass singer and songwriter of the group, who did the song's spoken introduction. The song was recorded for the album The Manhattans, released in 1976 by Columbia Records, and was released as a single in March of the same year. "Kiss and Say Goodbye" became a worldwide success, appearing in the musical charts of countless countries, a Top 10 hit in many countries, including No. 1 in the US, Belgium, Netherlands, New Zealand, and in Europe (European Hot 100 Singles). With the exception of the Adult Contemporary Chart, "Kiss and Say Goodbye" was ranked number 1 in the US on all pop and R&B singles charts. The song was one of the biggest hits of 1976 and of the 1970s.

Title: How Do I Say Goodbye
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/How_Do_I_Say_Goodbye
Excerpt: "How Do I Say Goodbye" is a song by Australian singer and songwriter Dean Lewis. The song was released on 2 September 2022 as the third single from Lewis's second studio album, The Hardest Love.
At the 2023 ARIA Music Awards, the song was nominated for Song of the Year.
At the APRA Music Awards of 2024, the song won Most Performed Australian Work and Most Performed Pop Work.