Title: Zodiac Killer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zodiac_Killer
Excerpt: The Zodiac Killer (also known by the pseudonym The Zodiac) is an unidentified serial killer who murdered at least five people in the San Francisco Bay Area between December 1968 and October 1969. The Zodiac attacked three couples and a cab driver in Benicia, Vallejo, unincorporated Napa County, and the city of San Francisco. Two of the Zodiac's seven victims survived.
In a series of letters mailed to Bay Area newspapers, the Zodiac took credit for the murders, described details known only to police, threatened bombings and more murders if the newspapers did not print his letters, and included cryptograms with his correspondence. Two of the Zodiac's four cryptograms were decrypted in 1969 and 2020, and the other two remain unsolved. The Zodiac's last letter was received by the San Francisco Chronicle in 1974. In the letter, the Zodiac claimed to have killed 37 people.
Despite several theories about the Zodiac's true identity, the only suspect police named was Arthur Leigh Allen, a former elementary school teacher and convicted sex offender who died in 1992. The Zodiac's murders, cryptograms, and letters to newspapers have made the case one of the most famous unsolved cases in American history. The Zodiac has become a fixture of popular culture, and the search for his identity continues to be pursued by amateur detectives all over the world.
In 2004, the San Francisco Police Department marked the case "inactive", but subsequently re-opened the case in 2006. The California Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the city of Vallejo, and the Napa and Solano county sheriffs maintain the case status as "open".

Title: Edmund Kemper
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edmund_Kemper
Excerpt: Edmund Emil Kemper III (born December 18, 1948) is an American serial killer convicted of murdering seven women, including his own mother, and one girl between May 1972 and April 1973. Years earlier, at the age of 15, Kemper had murdered his paternal grandparents. Kemper was nicknamed the "Co-ed Killer", as most of his non-familial victims were female college students hitchhiking in the vicinity of Santa Cruz County, California. Most of his murders included necrophilia, decapitation, dismemberment and possibly cannibalism.
Found sane and guilty at his trial in 1973, Kemper requested the death penalty for his crimes. Capital punishment was suspended in California at the time, and he instead received eight concurrent life sentences. Since then, he has been incarcerated at California Medical Facility in Vacaville.

Title: David Berkowitz
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Berkowitz
Excerpt: David Richard Berkowitz (born Richard David Falco; June 1, 1953), also known as the Son of Sam, the .44 Caliber Killer and the Phantom of the Bronx, is an American serial killer, serial arsonist, and former United States Army soldier who committed a stabbing and a series of shootings in New York City between 1975 and 1977, killing six people and wounding eleven others. Armed with a .44 caliber Bulldog revolver during most of his crimes, Berkowitz terrorized New York City with letters mocking police and promising further crimes, leading to possibly the biggest manhunt in the city's history.
With a parking ticket proving a vital clue to finding him, Berkowitz was arrested on August 10, 1977, and subsequently indicted for eight shootings. He confessed to all of them and initially claimed to have been obeying the orders of a demon manifested in the form of a black dog named "Sam", which belonged to his neighbor. After being found mentally competent to stand trial, Berkowitz pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and was sentenced to six concurrent life sentences with the possibility of parole after twenty-five years. He subsequently admitted the dog-and-devil story was a hoax. In police investigations, he was also implicated in many unsolved arsons in the city.
Intense media coverage of the case lent a kind of celebrity status to Berkowitz, which many observers noted he seemed to enjoy. The New York State Legislature enacted new statutes – known popularly as "Son of Sam laws" – designed to keep criminals from financially profiting from the publicity created by their crimes. The statutes have remained in New York despite various legal challenges, and similar laws have been enacted in several other states. During the mid-1990s, Berkowitz, by then professing to be a converted evangelical Christian, amended his confession to claim he had been a member of a violent Satanic cult that orchestrated the incidents as ritual murder. A new investigation of the murders began in 1996 but was suspended indefinitely after inconclusive findings.

Title: If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/If_I_Did_It:_Confessions_of_the_Killer
Excerpt: If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer is a book authored by O. J. Simpson with ghostwriter Pablo Fenjves, in which Simpson puts forth a hypothetical description of the 1994 murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman. According to Fenjves, the book is based on extensive discussions with Simpson. Simpson was acquitted of the murders in a criminal trial but later was found financially liable in a civil trial. Although the original release of the book was canceled shortly after it was announced in November 2006, 400,000 physical copies of the original book were printed, and copies of it had been leaked online by June 2007.
The book was originally due to be published by ReganBooks, an imprint of HarperCollins, which was headed by editor and publisher Judith Regan. Television network Fox, at the time a sister to HarperCollins via News Corporation, was to broadcast an interview special with Simpson to promote the book, O.J. Simpson: If I Did It, Here's How It Happened. However, the special was also canceled following objections by several Fox station owners. Footage from the interview was aired for the first time during a Fox special, O.J. Simpson: The Lost Confession?, in March 2018.
In August 2007, a Florida bankruptcy court awarded the rights to the book to the Goldman family to partially satisfy the civil judgment. The book's title was changed from If I Did It to If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer, and this version was published by Beaufort Books, a New York City publishing house owned by parent company Kampmann & Company/Midpoint Trade Books. Comments were added to the original manuscript by the Goldman family, Fenjves, and journalist Dominick Dunne. The new cover design printed the word "If" greatly reduced in size compared with the other words, and placed inside the word "I", so unless looked at very closely, the title of the book appears to read "I Did It: Confessions of the Killer".

Title: Edward Edwards (serial killer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Edwards_(serial_killer)
Excerpt: Edward Wayne Edwards (born Charles Wayne Murray; June 14, 1933 – April 7, 2011) was an American serial killer, rapist, prison escapee, and fugitive. After committing a series of gas station holdups in the 1950s and early 1960s, he was put on the FBI's Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list, leading to his capture in 1962. After his release from prison on parole in 1967, Edwards murdered at least five people between 1977 and 1996 in Ohio and Wisconsin. He was apprehended for these crimes in 2009 and died in 2011.