Title: Liza Weil
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liza_Weil
Summary: Liza Weil (born June 5, 1977) is an American actress. She starred as Paris Geller in the WB/CW comedy-drama series Gilmore Girls (2000–2007) and its Netflix revival series Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life (2016). She has also played White House aide Amanda Tanner in the ABC political drama series Scandal (2012) and attorney Bonnie Winterbottom in the ABC legal drama series How to Get Away with Murder (2014–2020).

Title: Shonda Rhimes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shonda_Rhimes
Summary: Shonda Lynn Rhimes (born January 13, 1970) is an American television producer and screenwriter, and founder of the production company Shondaland. Rhimes became known as the first showrunner—creator, head writer and executive producer—of the medical drama Grey's Anatomy (2005–present), its spin-off Private Practice (2007–2013) and the political thriller Scandal (2012–2018), becoming the first African American female showrunner to create three television dramas that have achieved the 100 episode milestone.
Rhimes has served as the executive producer of the ABC thriller series How to Get Away with Murder (2014–2020), the Netflix period series Bridgerton (2020–present) and Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story (2023) and crime drama Inventing Anna (2022). She has been nominated five times for a Primetime Emmy Award, won a Golden Globe Award and a Daytime Emmy Award, and received special honors at the British Academy Television Awards and  International Emmy Awards.
In 2015, Rhimes was inducted into the NAB Broadcasting Hall of Fame. In 2017, she was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame and became a Chair's Appointee of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences's executive committee. She is also part of the USC Film Council and the Writers Guild Inclusion Committee.
In 2007, 2013, and 2021, Rhimes was named by Time to the Time 100, their annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world. As of 2023, she is one of the richest women entertainers in America, with a net worth of $250 million. In 2015, she published her first book, a memoir, Year of Yes: How to Dance It Out, Stand in the Sun, and Be Your Own Person. In 2016, Rhimes formed The Rhimes Family Foundation whose mission is to support arts, education, and activism.

Title: Meredith Grey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meredith_Grey
Summary: Meredith Grey MD, FACS, (born 1978) is the fictional titular character from the medical drama television series Grey's Anatomy, which airs on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) in the United States. The character was created by series producer Shonda Rhimes and is portrayed by actress Ellen Pompeo. Meredith made her first appearance in the pilot episode, "A Hard Day's Night", broadcast on March 27, 2005. She also appears in the spin-off series Station 19 as a recurring character.
Meredith is the series' protagonist and was introduced as a surgical intern at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital (later Seattle Grace-Mercy West Hospital, and afterward Grey Sloan Memorial). She eventually obtains the position of a surgical resident, and later, the position of an attending surgeon. In 2016, she attains the Chief of General Surgery position. As the daughter of world-renowned surgeon Ellis Grey (Kate Burton), Meredith struggles with balancing the challenges of being in a competitive profession, maintaining her relationship with her one-night stand and eventual husband, Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey), her role as a mother, and her friendships with her colleagues. Her relationships with colleagues Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh), Izzie Stevens (Katherine Heigl), Alex Karev (Justin Chambers) and George O'Malley (T. R. Knight) often referred to as MAGIC, form a central part of the show's early dynamics.
Meredith serves as the narrator of the show and is the focal point of most episodes, though other characters' perspectives are also explored. Pompeo's on-screen chemistry with Dempsey has been celebrated as a high point of the series. Rhimes has described Meredith as someone who does not believe in absolute good or bad, but rather does what she feels is right. Meredith Grey has been positively received by critics, with Alessandra Stanley of The New York Times calling her "the heroine of Grey's Anatomy".
Pompeo's performance as Meredith has been well received throughout the series, leading to worldwide popularity for the character. Pompeo has been nominated for multiple awards, including  the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Drama and Satellite Award for Best Actress – Television Series Drama (both in 2007). She earned several nominations for the People's Choice Awards for Best Actress, winning in 2013 and 2015. She even became the highest paid actress on television in 2018.

Title: Cristina Yang
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cristina_Yang
Summary: Cristina Yang, MD, PhD, FACS, is a fictional character from the medical drama television series Grey's Anatomy, which has aired for 22 seasons on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) in the United States. The character was created by series producer Shonda Rhimes, and is portrayed by actress Sandra Oh. Introduced as a surgical intern at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital, Yang worked her way up to resident level, eventually becoming a cardiothoracic surgical fellow, while her relationships with colleagues Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo), Izzie Stevens (Katherine Heigl), Alex Karev (Justin Chambers) and George O'Malley (T. R. Knight) formed a focal point of the series. Earlier in the series, Yang got engaged to Preston Burke (Isaiah Washington), in the past had a relationship with renowned surgeon and mentor Colin Marlow (Roger Rees), and married but later divorced Owen Hunt (Kevin McKidd). 
Oh originally auditioned for the role of Miranda Bailey, although Chandra Wilson was ultimately cast in the part. Oh received widespread critical acclaim for her portrayal, with Mark Perigard of the Boston Herald considering her friendship with Meredith to be "the secret-core of Grey's". Oh has also garnered numerous awards and nominations for her role as Yang, including Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild Award wins in 2006. She was additionally nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series each year, from 2005 to 2009. Characterizing the character, ABC noted her competitiveness, ambition, and intelligence as her main traits, and her aggressive and tactless attitude as her main weakness. In May 2012, E! Online reported that Oh had signed on for two more years, along with her fellow cast members. Oh left the show after season 10, and her character Cristina Yang was written out of the storyline as a main cast member.

Title: Izzie Stevens
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Izzie_Stevens
Summary: Isobel Katherine "Izzie" Stevens, M.D. is a fictional character from the medical drama television series Grey's Anatomy, which airs on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) in the United States. The character was created by series producer Shonda Rhimes, and was portrayed by actress Katherine Heigl from 2005 to 2010. Introduced as a surgical intern at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital, Izzie worked her way up to resident level, while her relationships with her colleagues Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo), Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh), Alex Karev (Justin Chambers) and George O'Malley (T. R. Knight) formed a focal point of the series.
Heigl garnered widespread critical acclaim for her performance as Izzie and received numerous awards and nominations for her role, winning Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series at the 59th Primetime Emmy Awards in 2007. Her win was particularly notable in the history of Grey's Anatomy, as Heigl remains the only cast member to have won an individual Primetime Emmy Award for acting for her performance in the series. Although the series itself has received and won multiple Emmy Awards across various categories, none of its other principal cast members have won an individual acting Emmy. She was critical of the character's development during the show's fourth season, particularly her romance with her on-screen best friend George. She declined to pursue a nomination for the 2008 Emmy Awards, citing insufficient material in the role. After speculation that Izzie would be killed off in the fifth season, the character was diagnosed with Stage 4 metastatic melanoma. She married Alex in the series' 100th episode, and afterwards, her tumor was successfully removed. Heigl made her final series regular appearance as Izzie in the sixth season, leaving Seattle after Alex refused to resume their marriage. The actress requested to be released from her contract 18 months early, in order to spend more time with her family. Ten years after her final appearance, the character's fate was revealed in a season 16 episode, where she makes a visual cameo re-appearance.