Title: Marathon world record progression
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marathon_world_record_progression
Summary: World records in the marathon are ratified by World Athletics, the international governing body for the sport of athletics.
Sabastian Sawe set the men's world record of 1:59:30 at the London Marathon on April 26, 2026, becoming the first person in history to run a sub two-hour marathon in race conditions. 
Kenyan athlete Ruth Chepng'etich broke the women's world record with a time of 2:09:56 on October 13, 2024, at the 2024 Chicago Marathon, a mixed-sex race.
In addition to the standard women's marathon world record, World Athletics recognizes a second world record for women in the "Women Only" category for races run on a course without any male athletes in the competition. The current "Women Only" record of 2:15:41 was set by Tigst Assefa on April 26, 2026, at the London Marathon in the elite women's race.

Title: Catherine Ndereba
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catherine_Ndereba
Summary: Catherine Nyambura Ndereba (born 21 July 1972) is a retired Kenyan marathon runner. Between 2003 and 2008, she finished in the top two in five successive global championship marathons. Ndereba has twice won the marathon at the World Championships in Athletics and won silver medals at the Summer Olympic Games in 2004 and 2008, becoming Kenya's first female multi-medalist. She is also a four-time winner of the Boston Marathon and a two-time winner of the Chicago Marathon. It was at the latter in 2001 that she broke the women's marathon world record with a time of 2:18:47.
She retired in 2012 having been described by the Chicago Tribune as the greatest women's marathoner of all time.

Title: Paris Marathon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paris_Marathon
Summary: The Paris Marathon (French: Marathon de Paris) is an annual marathon hosted by the city of Paris, France. It is the largest running event in France in terms of finishers and is typically among the five largest marathons in the world.
The marathon begins along the Champs-Élysées, runs southeast through the city to the Bois de Vincennes, heads back through the city along the River Seine, and finishes on Avenue Foch.

Title: Lille Half Marathon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lille_Half_Marathon
Summary: The Lille Métropole Half Marathon (French: Semi-Marathon de Lille Métropole) is an annual half marathon foot race which takes place in Lille, France, in early September. First organised by the Association de Promotion des Événements Lillois in 1986, the race began as a marathon event before switching to the shorter distance in 1996. The course of the race begins in the Boulevard de la Liberté and finishes at the front of Lille's city hall on Rue de Paris.
The French Half Marathon Championships were held concurrently with the final edition of the marathon race in 1995. Bruno Leger was the men's winner with a time of 1:02:31 while Christine Mallo took the women's title in 1:12:05. The half marathon race has delivered some fast winning times – the 2009 race saw the top three men run under an hour and Mary Keitany ran the seventh quickest run ever to become the women's race winner. The men's course record of 59:05, set by Ezekiel Chebii in 2012, is the fastest ever recorded for the distance in France.
In addition to the half and full marathon, the Lille Half Marathon also hosted an elite 5K run and 10K run starting in 2023.

Title: Jasmin Paris
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jasmin_Paris
Summary: Jasmin Karina Paris  (born November 1983) is a British runner who has been a national fell running champion and who has set records for the Bob Graham Round and the Ramsay Round. In 2024, she became the first woman to successfully complete the Barkley Marathons.
She won the 2016 Skyrunner World Series Sky Extreme category, and a bronze medal at the 2016 Skyrunning World Championships in the Sky Ultra category. She received significant media attention for beating the all-time men's course record by 12 hours at the 2019 Spine Race. 
She is a senior lecturer in the Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies at the University of Edinburgh.