Title: Christian Vieri
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_Vieri
Summary: Christian "Bobo" Vieri (Italian pronunciation: [ˈkristjaɱ ˈvjɛːri]; born 12 July 1973) is an Italian former professional footballer who played as a centre forward. Having been born in Italy, Vieri moved with his family to Australia as a child, before returning to Italy to pursue his professional career at a young age. He then spent the bulk of his career playing in the Serie A. In March 2004, he was named in the FIFA 100, a list of the 125 greatest living footballers selected by Pelé as a part of FIFA's centenary celebrations.
A prolific goalscorer, he was widely regarded as one of the best strikers of his generation, leading to him becoming the world's most expensive player in 1999 when Inter Milan paid Lazio £32 million (€43 million) for his services. Something of a footballing nomad, Vieri played for 12 clubs throughout his career, mainly in Italy, but also in Spain and France. He started his career with Torino in 1991, but his most notable and successful spells were those at Juventus, Atlético Madrid, Lazio, and Inter, clubs with which he won several honours.
As well as picking up several winners' medals during his career, Vieri also claimed many individual awards including the Pichichi Trophy and Capocannoniere awards for the league's top scorer in Spain and Italy respectively, and the Serie A Italian Footballer of the Year twice. At international level, Vieri scored 23 goals in 49 appearances for Italy between 1997 and 2005. He is also one of Italy's highest ever goalscorers, with 23 goals putting him in joint ninth place alongside Francesco Graziani. More pressingly, no Italian has scored more World Cup goals than Vieri, with his combined nine goals from nine matches at the 1998 and 2002 tournaments making him the joint-highest World Cup scorer for Italy alongside Roberto Baggio and Paolo Rossi. He also took part at Euro 2004.

Title: AC Milan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AC_Milan
Summary: Associazione Calcio Milan (Italian pronunciation: [assotʃatˈtsjoːne ˈkaltʃo ˈmiːlan]), commonly referred to as AC Milan or simply Milan (Italian pronunciation: [ˈmiːlan]) mainly outside of Italy, is an Italian professional football club based in Milan, Lombardy. Founded in 1899, the club competes in Serie A, the top tier of Italian football. In its early history, Milan played its home games in different grounds around the city before moving to its current stadium, the San Siro, in 1926. The stadium, which was built by Milan's second chairman, Piero Pirelli, and has been shared with Inter Milan since 1947, is the largest in Italian football, with a total capacity of 75,817. The club has a long-standing rivalry with Inter, with whom they contest the Derby della Madonnina, one of the most followed derbies in football.
Milan has spent its entire history in Serie A with the exception of the 1980–81 and 1982–83 seasons. Silvio Berlusconi’s 31-year tenure as Milan president was a standout period in the club's history, as they established themselves as one of Europe's most dominant and successful clubs. Milan won 29 trophies during his tenure, securing multiple Serie A and UEFA Champions League titles. During the 1991–92 season, the club notably achieved the feat of being the first team to win the Serie A title without losing a single game. Milan is home to multiple Ballon d'Or winners, and three of the club's players, Marco van Basten, Ruud Gullit, and Frank Rijkaard, were ranked in the top three on the podium for the 1988 Ballon d'Or, an unprecedented achievement in the history of the prize.
Milan is one of the most successful football clubs in the world in terms of total trophies won. Domestically, Milan has won 19 league titles, 5 Coppa Italia titles and 8 Supercoppa Italiana titles. In international competitions, Milan is Italy's most successful club. The club has won seven European Cup/Champions League titles, making them the competition's second-most successful team behind Real Madrid, and further honours include five UEFA Super Cups, two UEFA Cup Winners' Cups, a joint record two Latin Cups, a joint record three Intercontinental Cups and one FIFA Club World Cup.
Milan is one of the wealthiest clubs in Italian and world football. It was a founding member of the now-defunct G-14 group of Europe's leading football clubs as well as its replacement, the European Club Association.

Title: Tiémoué Bakayoko
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ti%C3%A9mou%C3%A9_Bakayoko
Summary: Tiémoué Bakayoko (born 17 August 1994) is a French professional footballer who plays as a defensive midfielder.
Bakayoko plays as a centre midfielder, but can adapt to other positions such as a box-to-box midfielder due to his ability to break up play. He is considered to have all-round ability, as well as possessing physical power and athleticism, with France manager Didier Deschamps describing him as "a complete midfielder."
After suffering a fractured leg as a young player, Bakayoko joined the academy at Rennes at the age of 13. At 14, he was turned down by the Clairefontaine academy. His senior career began at Rennes, where he made 24 appearances before moving to Monaco in 2014 for €8 million. In his first two seasons at the club, Bakayoko made 31 Ligue 1 appearances, but was a regular starter in the 2016–17 season, contributing to Monaco's Ligue 1 title win as well as being named in the 2016–17 UEFA Champions League squad of the season. In 2017, he joined Premier League side Chelsea for £40 million, but after a poor first season with the club, he was loaned out in all future seasons. Bakayoko was eventually released by Chelsea in 2023 and signed for Lorient later that year.
Bakayoko made his only senior international appearance for the France national team in March 2017.

Title: Patrick Cutrone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patrick_Cutrone
Summary: Patrick Cutrone (Italian: [ˈpaːtrik kuˈtroːne]; born 3 January 1998) is an Italian professional footballer who plays as a striker for Serie A club Monza.

Title: Gattüso
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gatt%C3%BCso
Summary: Reem Taoz, known professionally as Gattüso,(stylized in all caps) is an Israeli disc jockey (DJ), and EDM musician from Tel Aviv who is active in New York City.  He has appeared on the Billboard Dance Radio chart three times, and has over 2 million monthly listeners on Spotify.