Title: Primož Roglič
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primo%C5%BE_Rogli%C4%8D
Summary: Primož Roglič (Slovene pronunciation: [ˈpɾiːmɔʃ ˈɾɔːɡlitʃ] ; born 29 October 1989) is a Slovenian professional racing cyclist who rides for UCI WorldTeam Red Bull–Bora–Hansgrohe. A former ski jumper, Roglič switched to cycling after an accident suffered at Planica. Despite becoming a professional at the relatively late age of 23, Roglič has since become one of the most successful cyclists of his generation, with many notable wins in time trials, one-week stage races, and Grand Tours.
Roglič has won five Grand Tours, including the Vuelta a España a record-tying four times (2019, 2020, 2021, and 2024), and the Giro d'Italia in 2023.  He was the first Slovenian to win either race. Roglič has also finished second overall at the 2020 Tour de France, becoming the first Slovenian to wear the yellow jersey before losing out to compatriot Tadej Pogačar. 
In 2020, when Roglič won the cycling monument Liège–Bastogne–Liège in addition to his Grand Tour success, he won the Vélo d'Or, which is awarded to the most successful cyclist of the racing season. In 2021, he won an Olympic gold medal in the men's individual time trial, Slovenia's first cycling medal.
Between 2019 and 2021, Roglič held the No. 1 ranking in the UCI Men's road racing world ranking for 75 weeks (a former record) and has twice finished as the year-end No. 1.

Title: Mathieu van der Poel
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathieu_van_der_Poel
Summary: Mathieu van der Poel (born 19 January 1995), nicknamed "The Flying Dutchman", is a Belgian-born Dutch professional cyclist who currently rides for the UCI WorldTeam Alpecin–Premier Tech. He competes in cyclo-cross, mountain biking, gravel and road racing disciplines of the sport.
Van der Poel has won eight Cyclo-cross World Championships (2015, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026), one Gravel World Championship (2024) and one Road World Championship (2023), becoming the only Men's World Champion in three different cycling disciplines. He has also won multiple stages at grand tours and has numerous classics victories, including winning both the Tour of Flanders and Paris–Roubaix three times, and Milan–San Remo twice. His rivalry with Wout van Aert is considered to be one of the great rivalries in the sport.

Title: Tadej Pogačar
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tadej_Poga%C4%8Dar
Summary: Tadej Pogačar (Slovene: [taˈdɛ́ːj pɔˈɡáːtʃaɾ] ; born 21 September 1998), nicknamed "Pogi", is a Slovenian  professional cyclist who rides for UCI WorldTeam UAE Team Emirates XRG. His victories include five Tours de France (2020, 2021, 2024, 2025 and 2026), the 2024 Giro d'Italia, and thirteen one-day Monuments (Milan–San Remo once, Tour of Flanders three times, Liège–Bastogne–Liège four times and Giro di Lombardia five times), as well as the World Championship Road Race twice. Comfortable in time-trialing, one-day classic riding and grand-tour climbing, he has been compared to all-round cyclists such as Eddy Merckx and Bernard Hinault. Despite his youth, he is considered one of the greatest cyclists of all time.
Pogačar was successful as a junior rider, winning the 2018 Tour de l'Avenir. In 2019, he became the youngest cyclist at 20, to win a UCI World Tour race at the Tour of California. In both his 2020 debut at the Tour de France and the next year, he won three stages and the general, mountains, and young-rider classifications, becoming the only rider to win these three classifications simultaneously. 2021 also saw Pogačar's first successes in the Monument one-day races, at the Giro di Lombardia and Liège–Bastogne–Liège. Subsequent seasons saw further wins in these, with the Tour of Flanders also added in 2023. Meanwhile, in the Grand Tours, Pogačar had consecutive second-place finishes in the Tour de France to Jonas Vingegaard, with whom his rivalry is considered to be one of the greatest of all time. This run ended in 2024 when he completed the first Giro d'Italia and Tour de France double since 1998, winning 12 stages across both races, adding the World Championship to become only the third to achieve the Triple Crown of Cycling. In 2025, he became the first rider to retain both the Tour de France and the World Championship. In 2026, Pogačar became the 5th person to win the Tour de France 5 times.
Pogačar has been praised for his attacking riding style, an approach which Pogačar himself has jokingly referred to as a "stupid instinct" during a time when many others have ridden more conservatively to manage energy levels. His aim to be competitive across both the Monuments and Grand Tours has been labelled as a return to "classic" bike racing of the 1960s–1980s, and this success across multiple fronts has led to him being the UCI road racing world No.1 for a record total number of weeks and record number of consecutive weeks.

Title: Jonas Vingegaard
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jonas_Vingegaard
Summary: Jonas Vingegaard Hansen (Danish: [ˈjoːnæs ˈve̝ŋəˌkɒːˀ ˈhænˀsn̩]; né Rasmussen; born 10 December 1996) is a Danish professional road racing cyclist. He rides for UCI WorldTeam Visma–Lease a Bike. Described as one of the best climbers of all time, he is equally celebrated for his rivalry with Tadej Pogačar that ranks among the sport's greatest. Vingegaard is one of only eight riders in history to have won all three Grand Tours, having won the 2022 and 2023 editions of the Tour de France, the 2025 Vuelta a España and the 2026 Giro d'Italia.
Vingegaard, whose youth career initially saw limited success, made his Grand Tour debut at the 2020 Vuelta a España. Then, in 2021, he participated in his first Tour de France and secured a second-place finish. In 2022, he returned to the Tour as one of the pre-race favourites, winning the overall classification alongside two stage victories and the polka dot jersey. This made him the second Danish cyclist ever to win the Tour de France; this achievement, coinciding with increased public interest following the 2022 Tour's Grand Départ in Copenhagen, made Vingegaard a national hero in Denmark.
In 2023, Vingegaard achieved his second successive Tour de France victory, before finishing second overall to his teammate Sepp Kuss at the Vuelta a España. For his achievements, Vingegaard was awarded the 2023 Vélo d'Or for the best cyclist of the season. In 2024, he missed several months of racing following a crash which punctured his lung. Despite this, Vingegaard returned for the Tour de France, winning a stage and finishing second overall behind Tadej Pogačar. In 2025, Vingegaard finished second in the Tour again, and first in the Vuelta a España, winning three stages.

Title: 2023 Tour de France
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023_Tour_de_France
Summary: The 2023 Tour de France was the 110th edition of the Tour de France. It started in Bilbao, Spain, on 1 July and ended with the final stage at Champs-Élysées, Paris, on 23 July.
Defending champion Jonas Vingegaard (Team Jumbo–Visma) won the general classification for the second year in a row. Two-time champion Tadej Pogačar (UAE Team Emirates) finished in second place, with Adam Yates (UAE Team Emirates) finishing third.
The race began in Bilbao in the Basque Country before returning to France. The first two weeks of the race was closely fought between Vingegaard and Pogačar, with just 10 seconds between the riders by the end of the second week. The decisive stages were the individual time trial on stage 16 where Vingegaard won by 1 minute 38 seconds ahead of Pogačar, and the subsequent stage in the Alps where Vingegaard extended his lead to over seven minutes. Vingegaard won the Tour for the second year running, putting him equal on Tour wins with his rival Pogačar. His winning margin of 7 minutes 29 seconds was the largest since 2014.
The points classification was won by Jasper Philipsen (Alpecin–Deceuninck) for the first time. The mountains classification was won by Giulio Ciccone (Trek–Segafredo), the first Italian to achieve this feat since 1992. The young rider classification was won by Pogačar for the fourth year in a row, and the team of Team Jumbo–Visma won the team classification. Victor Campenaerts (Lotto–Dstny) was chosen as the most combative rider.
The race was followed by the second edition of the Tour de France Femmes, which held its first stage on the final day of the men's Tour.