Title: Brazil national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brazil_national_football_team
Summary: The Brazil national football team (Portuguese: Seleção Brasileira de Futebol), nicknamed Canarinho, represents Brazil in men's international football and is administered by the Brazilian Football Confederation, the governing body of football in Brazil. It has been a member of FIFA since 1923 and was a founding member of CONMEBOL in 1916. It was also a member of PFC, the unified confederation of the Americas, from 1946 to 1961.
Brazil is the most successful national team in the FIFA World Cup, winning the tournament five times: 1958, 1962, 1970, 1994 and 2002. The Seleção also has the best overall performance in the World Cup competition with a record of 79 victories in 119 matches played and 135 goal difference. It is the only national team to have played in all World Cup editions without any absence nor need for playoffs, and the only team to have won the World Cup in four different continents. Brazil was the most successful team in the now-defunct FIFA Confederations Cup, with victories in 1997, 2005, 2009, and 2013.
Many commentators, football experts, and former players regard Brazil's 1970 World Cup-winning side as the greatest football team of all time. Other Brazilian squads are also highly esteemed and regularly appear listed among the best teams of all time, such as the teams of 1958–62 and of 1994–02 period. Brazil has developed many rivalries through the years, the most notable being with Argentina, Italy and Uruguay.
In FIFA's ranking system, Brazil holds the record for most Team of the Year first ranking wins with 13. It also has the highest average Elo football rating over time.

Title: European Cup and UEFA Champions League records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Cup_and_UEFA_Champions_League_records_and_statistics
Summary: This page details statistics of all seasons of the European Cup and Champions League. These statistics do not include the qualifying rounds of the UEFA Champions League, unless otherwise noted.

Title: List of Real Madrid CF records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Real_Madrid_CF_records_and_statistics
Summary: Real Madrid Club de Fútbol is a Spanish professional association football club based in Madrid. The club was formed in 1902 as Madrid Football Club, and played its first competitive match on 13 May 1902, in the Copa de la Coronación semi-final. Real Madrid currently plays in the Spanish top-tier La Liga, having become one of the founding members of that league in 1929, and is one of three clubs, the others being Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao, to have never been relegated from the league. They have also been involved in European football ever since they became the first Spanish club to enter the European Cup in 1955, except for the 1977–78 and 1996–97 seasons.
This list encompasses the major honours won by Real Madrid and records set by the club, their managers and their players. The player records section includes details of the club's leading goalscorers and those who have made most appearances in first team competitions. It also records notable achievements by Real Madrid players on the international stage, and the highest transfer fees paid and received by the club.
The club currently holds the record for the most European Cup / UEFA Champions League triumphs, with 15, and the most La Liga titles, with 36. Additionally, Real has won the Copa del Rey 20 times, the Supercopa de España 13 times, the Copa de la Liga once, the Copa Eva Duarte once, the UEFA Cup twice, the European/UEFA Super Cup six times, the Intercontinental Cup three times, the FIFA Intercontinental Cup one time, the FIFA Club World Cup five times, the Latin Cup twice and Copa Iberoamericana once. Powered by its fifteen European Cups, Real Madrid have a distinction of being the most successful club in terms of international titles, having amassed 35 pieces of silverware, more than any other team in the world. On the domestic front, its 71 titles rank second to Barcelona. The club's record appearance maker is Raúl, who made 741 appearances from 1994 to 2010; the club's record goalscorer is Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo, who scored 450 goals in 438 appearances through all competitions from 2009 to 2018.

Title: List of career achievements by Lionel Messi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_career_achievements_by_Lionel_Messi
Summary: Argentine footballer Lionel Messi, widely regarded as one of the greatest athletes of all time, and by many as the greatest footballer in history, has been awarded throughout his career a total of eight Ballon d'Or awards and three The Best FIFA Men's Player awards, the most of any player.
He is also the only player to win the FIFA World Cup Golden Ball and FIFA Club World Cup Golden Ball twice. Messi holds the records for the most goals in European club competitions (704), Europe’s Top Five Leagues (496), La Liga (474), Supercopa de España (14), UEFA Super Cup (3) and is also the first and only player in history to win five and six European Golden Shoes. He has scored 928 goals for club and country, including 125 international goals, 21 goals at the FIFA World Cup, 129 goals in the UEFA Champions League, and 6 goals in the FIFA Club World Cup throughout his professional career, making him the second-highest all-time goalscorer in mentioned career and competitions. Messi is also the player with the most official recorded assists in football history (423), international football (65), FIFA World Cup (12), Copa América (18), La Liga (192), Copa del Rey (33) and Supercopa de España (5). Collectively, Messi has won 44 senior trophies (including FIFA World Cup, Finalissima, Copa América, FIFA Club World Cup, UEFA Super Cup and UEFA Champions League) and 46 official trophies including youth-level honours (FIFA U-20 World Cup and Summer Olympics Gold Medal) in his career.

Title: List of world association football records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_world_association_football_records
Summary: This article features a list of men's professional FIFA records in association football, in any football league, cup, or other competition around the world, including professionals, semi-professionals, and amateurs unless otherwise stated. Friendly club matches are generally not eligible for the records. The article includes comprehensive statistics on official football leagues worldwide in general, without taking league rankings or coefficients into account. The statistics apply only to first teams, figures for reserve teams and youth teams are not included unless otherwise stated.
These records are divided based on whether they relate to players, coaches, clubs, or stadiums.