Title: European Cup and UEFA Champions League records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Cup_and_UEFA_Champions_League_records_and_statistics
Summary: This page details statistics of all seasons of the European Cup and Champions League. These statistics do not include the qualifying rounds of the UEFA Champions League, unless otherwise noted.

Title: League of Legends World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/League_of_Legends_World_Championship
Summary: The League of Legends World Championship (commonly abbreviated as Worlds) is the annual professional League of Legends world championship tournament hosted by Riot Games and is the culmination of each season. Teams compete for the champion title, the 22-pound (10-kilogram) Summoner's Cup, and a multi-million-dollar championship prize. In 2018, the final was watched by 99.6 million people, breaking 2017's final's viewer record. The tournament has been praised for its ceremonial performances, while receiving attention worldwide due to its dramatic and emotional nature.
The League of Legends World Championships has gained success and popularity, making it among the world's most watched tournaments, as well as the most watched esports event in the world.
The tournament rotates its venues across different major countries and regions each year, with the next edition set to take place in the United States. South Korea's T1 is the most successful team in the tournament's history, having won six world championships.

Title: League of Legends in esports
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/League_of_Legends_in_esports
Summary: League of Legends esports is the professional competition of the multiplayer online battle arena video game League of Legends. The game, released in 2009, was the first to be developed and published by Riot Games. Esports tournaments for the game began as early as 2010, most notably with the 2010 World Cyber Games when it was featured as a promotion game. In 2011, the first edition of the League of Legends World Championship was held at DreamHack in Jönköping, Sweden, which was won by Fnatic.
League of Legends is one of the largest esports with various annual tournaments taking place worldwide. In terms of esports professional gaming as of June 2016, League of Legends has had US$29,203,916 in prize money, 4,083 Players, and 1,718 tournaments, compared to Dota 2's US$64,397,286 of prize money, 1,495 players, and 613 tournaments.
Former League Championship Series commissioner Chris Greeley is the current Global Head of League of Legends Esports (LoL Esports) for Riot Games since 2024.

Title: Caps (gamer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caps_(gamer)
Summary: Rasmus Borregaard Winther (born 17 November 1999), better known by his in-game name Caps, is a Danish professional League of Legends player for G2 Esports. Widely regarded as one of the greatest Western League of Legends players of all time, he has spent most of his career with G2, where he has become the team's franchise player.
Caps has won one MSI title, 17 LEC titles, two Rift Rivals titles and one TCL title. He is among few players to reach consecutive World Championship finals (2018 and 2019), though he lost both. 
On 18 August 2026, he was inducted into the Hall of Legends, joining Faker and Uzi as the third inductee.

Title: 2022 League of Legends World Championship final
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_League_of_Legends_World_Championship_final
Summary: The 2022 League of Legends World Championship final was a League of Legends (LoL) esports series between T1 and DRX on 5 November 2022 at the Chase Center in San Francisco, California, United States. It marked the twelfth final of a LoL World Championship. Both T1 and DRX were two of four representatives from the League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) at the tournament, the others being Gen.G and DWG KIA. It was T1's first appearance in the final since the 2017 edition and the first time a play-in team made a tournament run to the final, with DRX starting their tournament from the play-in stage as the LCK's fourth seed, barely qualifying through the regional qualifiers.
The series was a best of five and was played in front of 18,000 spectators, with 5.1 million concurrent peak viewers, which was the highest in the tournament's history at the time. The series ended 3–2 in favor of DRX after a back-and-forth five-game series, and was considered the completion of a Cinderella run by commentators, with many regarding it as one of the greatest finals in the history of League of Legends.
DRX's top laner Hwang "Kingen" Seong-hoon earned Most Valuable Player honors. The series marked the first international victory for DRX and support Cho "BeryL" Geon-hee's second world championship, making him one of the two active players alongside Lee "Faker" Sang-hyeok, who also played in the series in his fifth finals appearance, to have more than one world championship after winning the title with DWG KIA in 2020. It also marked the first world championship for ADC Kim "Deft" Hyuk-kyu, who was reportedly in his final year of professional play before eventually deciding to continue playing for two more seasons before entering mandatory military service in South Korea, and his second international title after winning the 2015 Mid-Season Invitational with Edward Gaming, whom DRX also faced en route to the finals and were the defending champions heading into Worlds.