Title: Liquid crystal on silicon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liquid_crystal_on_silicon
Summary: Liquid crystal on silicon (LCoS or LCOS) is a miniaturized reflective active-matrix liquid-crystal display or "microdisplay" using a liquid crystal layer on top of a silicon backplane. It is also known as a spatial light modulator. LCoS initially was developed for projection televisions, but has since found additional uses in wavelength selective switching, structured illumination, near-eye displays and optical pulse shaping.
JVC's development of LCoS is branded as Direct-drive Image Light Amplifier (D-ILA), while Sony's own development is branded as Silicon X-tal Reflective Display (SXRD).
LCoS is distinct from LCD projection technology, which uses transmissive LCD panel(s) that block or allow light through. LCoS is more similar to DLP displays.

Title: Crystal Pepsi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crystal_Pepsi
Summary: Crystal Pepsi is a cola made by PepsiCo. It was initially marketed in the United States and Canada between 1992 and 1994, and has had sporadic limited releases since 2016.
In 1991, PepsiCo's leadership reshaped the company. It aimed to capitalize on healthy food consumption trends to stimulate the slowing cola market. After 1,000 product concepts and 3,000 formulations, it discovered a lighter flavor and appearance, with modified food starch instead of caramel color and 20 fewer calories. It resembles standard Pepsi but reportedly tastes less acidic.
Crystal Pepsi was launched in 1992 with a large marketing campaign and to great success, capturing a 1% share of the US soft drink market in its first year. Consumer enthusiasm quickly tailed off, however, and Coca-Cola launched Tab Clear as a deliberate copy to sabotage Crystal Pepsi. Production of Crystal Pepsi ceased in late 1993. Inspired by a grassroots campaign via telephone and the Internet, it was briefly re-released sporadically in the 2010s.

Title: Crystal Light
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crystal_Light
Summary: Crystal Light (Also Known As Clight outside North America) is an American brand of powdered and artificially sweetened beverage mixes produced by Kraft Heinz in North America and Mondelez International Outside North America. It was introduced in 1982 to a test market and released to the public in April 1984. General Foods, a now defunct company, were the original sellers of the product, but now it is sold by Kraft Foods.  It is available in a wide variety of flavors, such  as lemonade, sweet tea, and fruit punch.

Title: Swarovski
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swarovski
Summary: Swarovski (, German: [svaˈrɔfski] ) is an Austrian luxury goods conglomerate that designs, manufactures, distributes and sells jewellery, watches and glass. The company is based in Wattens, Tyrol and was founded in 1895 by Daniel Swarovski.
The company is split into three major industry areas: the Swarovski Crystal Business, which primarily produces crystal glass, jewellery, rhinestone, watches and accessories; Swarovski Optik, which produces optical instruments such as telescopes, telescopic sights for rifles, and binoculars; and Tyrolit, a manufacturer of grinding, sawing, drilling, and dressing tools, as well as a supplier of tools and machines.
Swarovski jewellery is regarded as one of the most prestigious manufacturers of luxury goods. FashionUnited ranked Swarovski on its Most Valuable Fashion Brands list as 22nd in 2025, with a brand value of $4.8 billion.
Today, the Swarovski Crystal Business is one of the highest-grossing business units within Swarovski, with a global reach of approximately 3,000 stores in roughly 170 countries, more than 29,000 employees, and a revenue of about 2.7 billion euros (in 2018).
Swarovski is now run by the fifth generation of family members. It has been announced, however, that for the first time in the company's key history, senior management positions will come to be filled by non-family members during the course of 2022.

Title: Crystal Head Vodka
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crystal_Head_Vodka
Summary: Crystal Head Vodka is a brand of vodkas manufactured by Globefill Inc. in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. It was conceived and founded by actor Dan Aykroyd and artist John Alexander in September 2008. The vodkas are quadruple-distilled, filtered seven times and packaged in a glass bottle modeled after a crystal skull.