Title: Real Madrid CF
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_Madrid_CF
Summary: Real Madrid Club de Fútbol (Spanish pronunciation: [reˈal maˈðɾið ˈkluβ ðe ˈfuðβol] ) is a Spanish professional association football club based in Madrid. The club competes in La Liga, the top tier of Spanish football.
Founded in 1902 as Madrid Football Club, the club has traditionally worn a white home kit. The honorific title 'Real' is Spanish for "Royal" and was bestowed by Alfonso XIII in 1920. Real Madrid have played their home matches in the Bernabéu since 1947. Unlike most European sporting clubs, Real Madrid's members have owned and operated the club throughout its history. The club is one of the most widely supported in the world and the most followed sports club across social media. It was estimated to be worth $6.6 billion in 2024, making it the world's most valuable football club. In 2024, it became the first football club to make €1 billion ($1.08bn) in revenue. The club anthem is the "Hala Madrid y nada más".
Real Madrid is one of the most successful football clubs in the world and the most decorated club in Europe. In Spanish domestic football, the club has won 71 trophies; a record 36 La Liga titles, 20 Copa del Rey, 13 Supercopa de España, a Copa Eva Duarte and a Copa de la Liga. In International football, Real Madrid have won a record 35 trophies: a record 15 European Cup/UEFA Champions League titles, a record six UEFA Super Cups, two UEFA Cups, a joint-record two Latin Cups, a record one Iberoamerican Cup, and a record nine world championships. Madrid has been ranked joint first a record number of times in the IFFHS Club World Ranking. In UEFA's club ranking, Madrid ranks first in the all-time club ranking.
As one of the three founding members of La Liga never relegated from the top division along with Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao, Real Madrid has many long-standing rivalries, most notably El Clásico with Barcelona and El Derbi Madrileño with Atlético Madrid. The club established itself as a major force in Spanish and European football during the 1950s and 60s, winning five consecutive and six overall European Cups. This success was replicated on the domestic front, with Madrid winning 12 league titles in 16 years. This team, which included Alfredo Di Stéfano, Ferenc Puskás, Paco Gento and Raymond Kopa, is considered by some in the sport to be the greatest of all time. Real Madrid is known for its Galácticos policy, which involves signing the world's best players, such as Ronaldo, Zinedine Zidane and David Beckham to create a superstar team. In 2009, Madrid signed Cristiano Ronaldo for a record-breaking £80 million (€94 million) from Manchester United; he became the club's and history's all-time top goal-scorer. In addition to signing star players, Real Madrid develops homegrown talent through its academy, La Fábrica, which has produced notable graduates such as Raúl, Iker Casillas, and Dani Carvajal, and has supplied the highest number of players to Europe's top five leagues.
Real Madrid was recognized as the greatest football club of the 20th century, receiving the FIFA Centennial Order of Merit in 2004. Real Madrid has the highest number of participations in the European Cup/UEFA Champions League (55), a tournament in which they hold the records for most wins, draws and goals scored. Real Madrid is the only club to have won three consecutive titles in the European Cup/UEFA Champions League twice, achieving this in 1956-58 and 2016-18. In 2024, they won a record-extending 15th Champions League title (the sixth in eleven seasons), recognized as such by Guinness World Records. Real Madrid is the first club across all Europe's top-five leagues to win 100 trophies in all competitions. As of May 2026, Real Madrid are ranked 2nd in UEFA club rankings, and first over 2013–23 coefficient.

Title: Luka Modrić
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luka_Modri%C4%87
Summary: Luka Modrić (Croatian pronunciation: [lûːka mǒːdritɕ]; born 9 September 1985) is a Croatian professional footballer who plays as a central midfielder for Serie A club AC Milan and captains the Croatia national team. He is widely regarded as one of the greatest midfielders of all time and as the greatest Croatian footballer in history. With 34 major trophies, he is the most decorated Croatian player and ranks joint-third on all-time match appearances in international football. In addition, he is also one of a select number of players who have amassed over 1,100 career appearances.
Modrić began his career with Croatian club Dinamo Zagreb from 2003 to 2008 – intermittently on loan to Zrinjski Mostar and Inter Zaprešić – winning six domestic trophies. He moved to Tottenham Hotspur in 2008, leading them to UEFA Champions League qualification in 2010, the club's first qualification in almost 50 years. Modrić joined Real Madrid for a £30 million transfer fee in 2012. He won the 2013–14 Champions League title and was named in the squad of the season. Modrić was a key member of the team's three consecutive Champions League titles from 2015–16 to 2017–18, named to the squad of the season each time. In total, he won 28 major trophies with the club, including six UEFA Champions League titles, four La Liga titles, and two Copa del Rey titles, making him Real Madrid's all-time most decorated footballer. He joined AC Milan in 2025 on a free transfer.
Since his international debut in 2006, Modrić has led the nation's "second Golden Generation" of players. He has participated in every major tournament Croatia has qualified for, including every UEFA European Championship from 2008 to 2024, as well as the 2006, 2014, 2018, 2022 and 2026 FIFA World Cup. At Euro 2008, he was named in the Team of the Tournament. Modrić led Croatia to a second and third-place finish at the 2018 and 2022 World Cup respectively, securing two World Cup medals. He individually won the Golden Ball as the tournament's best player in 2018, later winning the Bronze Ball as the tournament's third-best player in 2022. Modrić similarly led the team to a silver medal in the 2023 UEFA Nations League.
Throughout his career, Modrić has won numerous individual awards, culminating in the Ballon d'Or in 2018, making him the first player other than Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo to win the award since 2007. He has been named Croatian Footballer of the Year a record fourteen times between 2007 and 2025. Modrić received the Best FIFA Men's Player Award, the UEFA Men's Player of the Year Award, and the IFFHS World's Best Playmaker award in 2018. He has been named in the FIFPRO World 11 six times and in the UEFA Team of the Year three times. In 2019, he was awarded the Golden Foot for his personality and career legacy.

Title: List of Real Madrid CF records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Real_Madrid_CF_records_and_statistics
Summary: Real Madrid Club de Fútbol is a Spanish professional association football club based in Madrid. The club was formed in 1902 as Madrid Football Club, and played its first competitive match on 13 May 1902, in the Copa de la Coronación semi-final. Real Madrid currently plays in the Spanish top-tier La Liga, having become one of the founding members of that league in 1929, and is one of three clubs, the others being Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao, to have never been relegated from the league. They have also been involved in European football ever since they became the first Spanish club to enter the European Cup in 1955, except for the 1977–78 and 1996–97 seasons.
This list encompasses the major honours won by Real Madrid and records set by the club, their managers and their players. The player records section includes details of the club's leading goalscorers and those who have made most appearances in first team competitions. It also records notable achievements by Real Madrid players on the international stage, and the highest transfer fees paid and received by the club.
The club currently holds the record for the most European Cup / UEFA Champions League triumphs, with 15, and the most La Liga titles, with 36. Additionally, Real has won the Copa del Rey 20 times, the Supercopa de España 13 times, the Copa de la Liga once, the Copa Eva Duarte once, the UEFA Cup twice, the European/UEFA Super Cup six times, the Intercontinental Cup three times, the FIFA Intercontinental Cup one time, the FIFA Club World Cup five times, the Latin Cup twice and Copa Iberoamericana once. Powered by its fifteen European Cups, Real Madrid have a distinction of being the most successful club in terms of international titles, having amassed 35 pieces of silverware, more than any other team in the world. On the domestic front, its 71 titles rank second to Barcelona. The club's record appearance maker is Raúl, who made 741 appearances from 1994 to 2010; the club's record goalscorer is Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo, who scored 450 goals in 438 appearances through all competitions from 2009 to 2018.

Title: HŠK Zrinjski Mostar
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H%C5%A0K_Zrinjski_Mostar
Summary: HŠK Zrinjski Mostar (Croatian: Hrvatski športski klub Zrinjski Mostar, lit. 'Croat Sports Club Zrinjski Mostar'), colloquially referred to as Zrinjski Mostar or simply Zrinjski, is a professional football club, based in Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The club plays in the Premier League of Bosnia and Herzegovina and with nine Premier League titles, Zrinjski is one of the most decorated football clubs in the country. The club plays its home matches at Stadion pod Bijelim Brijegom in Mostar. Zrinjski's fans are called Ultras Mostar, and the fan club was founded in 1994. In 2023, they became the first-ever club from Bosnia and Herzegovina to reach the group stage of a European club competition, the 2023–24 UEFA Europa Conference League.
Zrinjski Mostar was founded by Croat youth in 1905 in what was then Austria-Hungary and is the oldest football club in Bosnia and Herzegovina. After World War II, all clubs that had participated in the wartime Croatian league were banned in the Yugoslavia, with Zrinjski among them. The ban lasted from 1945 to 1992. The club was reformed after Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence. It played in the First League of Herzeg-Bosnia until 2000 when it joined the Premier League. In 2005, Zrinjski celebrated its first championship crown in the Premier League of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Today, the football team is part of the Zrinjski Mostar sports society. They have a bitter rivalry with city neighbours, Velež.

Title: FIFA Club World Cup awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFA_Club_World_Cup_awards
Summary: The FIFA Club World Cup is an international association football competition organised by the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), the sport's global governing body. The championship was first contested as the FIFA Club World Championship in 2000. It was not held between 2001 and 2004 due to a combination of factors, most importantly the collapse of FIFA's marketing partner International Sport and Leisure. Following a change in format which saw the FIFA Club World Championship absorb the Intercontinental Cup, it was relaunched in 2005 and took its current name the season afterwards.
The current format of the tournament, in use since the competition was revamped ahead of the 2025 edition, features 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation; 12 teams from Europe, 6 from South America, 4 from Asia, 4 from Africa, 4 from North, Central America and Caribbean, 1 from Oceania, and 1 team from the host nation. The teams are drawn into eight groups of four, with each team playing three group stage matches in a round-robin format. The top two teams from each group advance to the knockout stage, starting with the round of 16 and culminating with the final.
At the end of each final tournament, several awards are attributed to the players and teams which have distinguished themselves from the rest in different aspects of the game. Spanish club Barcelona has been the only club to earn every award in one edition, a feat accomplished during the 2015 FIFA Club World Cup. Barcelona, along with Real Madrid, are also the only sides to have earned three FIFA Fair Play Trophies. Lionel Messi is also the only player to have won two Golden Ball awards. Uruguayan player Luis Suárez holds the record for the most goals scored in one edition (five in 2015).