Title: Tesla, Inc.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tesla,_Inc.
Summary: Tesla, Inc. ( TEZ-lə or   TESS-lə) is an American multinational automotive and clean energy company. Headquartered in Austin, Texas, it designs, manufactures, and sells battery electric vehicles (BEVs), stationary battery energy storage devices from home to grid-scale, solar panels and solar shingles, and related products and services.
The company was incorporated in July 2003 by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning as Tesla Motors. Its name is a tribute to the inventor and electrical engineer Nikola Tesla. In February 2004, Elon Musk led Tesla's first funding round and became the company's chairman, subsequently claiming to be a co-founder; in 2008, he was named chief executive officer. The company began production of its first car model, the Roadster sports car, in 2008; the Model S sedan in 2012; the Model X SUV in 2015; the Model 3 sedan in 2017; the Model Y crossover in 2020; the Tesla Semi truck in 2022; and the Cybertruck pickup truck in 2023.
Tesla is one of the world's most valuable companies in terms of market capitalization. Starting in July 2020, it has been the world's most valuable automaker. From October 2021 to March 2022, Tesla was a US$1 trillion company, the sixth US company to reach that valuation. In 2023, the company was ranked 69th in the Forbes Global 2000. In 2024, the company led the battery electric vehicle market, with 17.6% share.
Tesla exceeded $1 trillion in market capitalization again between November 2024 and February 2025, and from May 2025 to July 2026. In November 2025, Tesla approved a pay package worth $1 trillion for Musk, which he is to receive over 10 years if he meets specific goals. By the end of 2025, the company lost its status as world's leading manufacturer of electric vehicles.
Tesla has been the subject of lawsuits, boycotts, government scrutiny, and journalistic criticism, stemming from allegations of multiple cases of whistleblower retaliation, worker rights violations such as sexual harassment and anti-union activities, safety defects leading to dozens of recalls, the lack of a public relations department, and controversial statements from Musk, including overpromising on the company's driving assist technology and product release timelines.

Title: Deepak Ahuja
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deepak_Ahuja
Summary: Deepak Prabhu Ahuja (born on January 1963) is an  Indian-American executive working in the life sciences industry who previously worked in the automotive manufacturing industry. He is best known for serving as the chief financial  officer of Tesla for eleven years.

Title: Zach Kirkhorn
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zach_Kirkhorn
Summary: Zach Kirkhorn (born 1984) is an American business executive working in the automotive manufacturing industry. He served as the chief financial officer (CFO) of Tesla, Inc. from 2019 until he stepped down in August 2023.

Title: Criticism of Tesla, Inc.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criticism_of_Tesla,_Inc.
Summary: Tesla, Inc. has been criticized for its cars, workplace culture, business practices, and occupational safety. Many of the criticisms are also directed toward Elon Musk, the company's CEO and Product Architect. Critics have also accused Tesla of deceptive marketing, unfulfilled promises, and fraud. The company is currently facing criminal and civil investigations into its self-driving claims. Critics have highlighted Tesla's downplaying of issues, and Tesla's alleged retaliation against several whistleblowers.
The safety and quality of Tesla cars and services have been questioned. There have been hundreds of reports of sudden unintended acceleration, brake failures, and "whompy wheels" – collapsing wheels due to faulty car suspension. These safety and quality problems have been compounded in the past by the poor wait times of Tesla's customer service. Some features such as Autopilot, Full Self-Driving beta, and Passenger Play (a feature allowing riders to play Tesla games while in motion) have been criticized for their careless deployment. Critics have noted that some Tesla cars have had poor build quality due to rushed testing, leading to a high ratio of flawed vehicles. Others criticize the company's "stealth" vehicle recalls, requiring customers to sign non-disclosure agreements.
Relationships between Musk, Tesla board members, employees, and unions have been complicated, partly resulting in a high turnover rate. Employees have reported poor treatment and policies, resulting in a high injury rate, with some having faced sexual harassment, racism, and union-busting incidents. Tesla's environmental practices, use of cryptocurrencies, and compliance with open source licenses have been mentioned by critics. Detractors also claim that Tesla and Musk's public relations activities have been used to deflect criticisms.
Musk and his company have been repeatedly accused of engaging in fraud, such as in their buyout of SolarCity, selling defective vehicles, overpromising, and posting reckless tweets. One tweet resulted in Musk agreeing to pay a fine and step down as Tesla's chairman. Proponents and opponents of Tesla consistently accuse each other of conflicts of interest, believing Tesla's stock valuation is either under- or over-valued.

Title: Vaibhav Taneja
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vaibhav_Taneja
Summary: Vaibhav Taneja is an Indian-American business executive and a chartered accountant who is currently serving as chief financial officer of Tesla, Inc.,  since 2023. He is also the company's chief accounting officer and one of the directors of Tesla India Motors and Energy Private Limited.