Title: Seoul National University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul_National_University
Summary: Seoul National University (SNU; Korean: 서울대학교) is a public research university in Seoul, South Korea. Founded in 1946 by the merger of ten institutions in the Seoul area, it is one of the SKY universities and a part of the Flagship Korean National Universities.
The university's main campus is located in Gwanak, and two additional campuses are located in Daehangno and Pyeongchang. The university comprises sixteen colleges, one graduate school and nine professional schools. The student body consists of nearly 16,000 undergraduate and 16,000 graduate students.

Title: University of Seoul
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Seoul
Summary: The University of Seoul is a four-year public comprehensive university in Dongdaemun-gu.
It has its origins as Gyeongseong Public Agricultural School, which opened on May 1, 1918, and is currently the only four-year comprehensive university among public universities in Korea.[3]  It is operated by the Seoul Metropolitan Government, and the mayor of Seoul is responsible for its operation as the chairman of the Seoul University Steering Committee. The University of Seoul comprises 9 colleges, 39 departments, 10 graduate schools, 2 affiliated institutions, and 14 research institutes.

Title: Korea National University of Arts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Korea_National_University_of_Arts
Summary: Korea National University of Arts (Korean: 한국예술종합학교) is a national university in Seoul, South Korea. Korea National University of Arts was established in 1993 by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism as the only national university of arts with an aim to serve as a leading institution which cultivates artists. It has 26 departments in six schools: Schools of Music, Drama, Film, TV & Multimedia, Dance, Visual Arts, and Korean Traditional Arts.

Title: Seoul National University of Science and Technology
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul_National_University_of_Science_and_Technology
Summary: Seoul National University of Science and Technology (abbreviated SeoulTech) is a national university located in Nowon-gu, Seoul, South Korea.
Seoul National University of Science and Technology originated from Public Eoeudong Vocational Continuing School. Later the school was re-organized as Gyeongseong Public Industrial School, Gyeonggi Technical College, and Seoul National University of Technology before it was finally reborn as Seoul National University of Science and Technology in September 2010 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of its foundation. The institution is also known as 'Seoultech'.
Today Seoultech is a large and comprehensive university consisting of six colleges, 23 departments, seven graduate schools and a student enrolment of 11,500 people in a spacious campus of 508,690 square meters (125.70 acres). This is the fifth-largest campus in the universities of Seoul. The campus, formerly occupied by the colleges of engineering of Seoul National University, is in Nowon-gu in the northern part of Seoul. Seoul National University of Science and Technology was ranked second in South Korea and 23rd in Asia in field of focused university in the 2015 by Quacquarelli Symonds (QS)
and ranked 15th in South Korea in the field of Science and Engineering in 2015 by Korea Economic Daily (한국경제신문).

Title: 16th Seoul International Drama Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/16th_Seoul_International_Drama_Awards
Summary: The 16th Annual Seoul International Drama Awards (Korean: 제16회 서울 드라마 어워즈) festival was held on 20–22 October 2021 at MBC Hall, Sangam-dong, Seoul. 238 works from 41 countries vied for awards in this edition.
The awards ceremony took place online on 21 October without spectators and non-face-to-face, hosted by Park Eun-bin and Astro member Cha Eun-woo. It was broadcast live through MBC and YouTube channel.
Those who have been vaccinated against COVID-19 and some of the winners from home and abroad attended this year's awards ceremony as per safety rules for COVID-19.