Title: Frances de la Tour
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frances_de_la_Tour
Summary: Frances J. de Lautour (born 30 July 1944), better known as Frances de la Tour, is a British actress. A Tony Award winner and three-time Olivier Award winner, she is also known for her roles in the television sitcom Rising Damp and Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.
She performed as Mrs. Lintott in the play The History Boys in London and on Broadway, winning the 2006 Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Play. She reprised the role in the 2006 film. Her other film roles include Madame Olympe Maxime in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005). Television roles include Emma Porlock in the Dennis Potter serial Cold Lazarus (1996), Maud in the miniseries Flickers, headmistress Margaret Baron in BBC sitcom Big School and Violet Crosby in the sitcom Vicious.

Title: Music tourism
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Music_tourism
Summary: Music tourism is the act of visiting a city or town to see a music festival or other performances. This sort of tourism is particularly important to small villages such as Glastonbury, as well as bigger cities like Glasgow. The fairly recent jam band phenomenon is a contemporary example that encourages music tourism. Music festivals are attended by many tourists annually. Taylor Swift's Eras Tour and Coldplay's Music of the Spheres World Tour are prominent instances of music tourism with their impact on global economy. 
The Artful Music Tourist Board movement, started by musicians at London's Paradise Bar (now Royal Albert Pub) in 2003, celebrates the phenomenon.

Title: Robert Fulton Birthplace
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Fulton_Birthplace
Summary: The Robert Fulton Birthplace is a historic house museum at 1932 Robert Fulton Highway (U.S. Route 222) south of Quarryville, Pennsylvania. Built in the mid-18th century and reconstructed after a fire demolished it in 1822, it was the birthplace of inventor Robert Fulton (1765–1815). Fulton is best known for the development of commercially viable steamboats as a means of transportation. The house was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1964. The property is owned by the Southern Lancaster Historical Society which gives weekend tours of the house from Memorial Day through Labor Day.

Title: Harry Styles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_Styles
Summary: Harry Edward Styles (born 1 February 1994) is an English singer, songwriter, and actor. An influential figure in popular culture, he is known for his showmanship, artistry, and flamboyant fashion. Styles's musical career began in 2010 as part of One Direction, a boy band formed on the British music competition series The X Factor after each member of the band had been eliminated from the solo contest. They became one of the best-selling boy bands of all time before going on an indefinite hiatus in 2016. Styles released his eponymous debut solo album through Erskine and Columbia Records in 2017, which was led by the UK number-one single "Sign of the Times".
His second album, Fine Line (2019), set the biggest ever first-week sales by an English male artist in the United States. Its fourth single, "Watermelon Sugar", topped the US Billboard Hot 100. Styles's acclaimed third album, Harry's House (2022), received the Grammy Award for Album of the Year, while its lead single, "As It Was", became the world's biggest single of the year. His fourth album, Kiss All the Time. Disco, Occasionally (2026), featured the global number-one singles "Aperture" and "American Girls".
His accolades include six Brit Awards, three Grammy Awards, two Ivor Novello Awards, three American Music Awards, and four MTV Video Music Awards. Fine Line and Harry's House were both included on Rolling Stone's list of "The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time". Styles's film roles include Dunkirk (2017), Eternals (2021), Don't Worry Darling (2022), and My Policeman (2022). Wearing a blue Gucci dress, he became the first man to appear solo on the cover of Vogue. Styles contributes to various charities and advocates for gender, racial, and LGBTQ equality.

Title: Welcome to New York (song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welcome_to_New_York_(song)
Summary: "Welcome to New York" is a song by the American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift from her fifth studio album, 1989 (2014). Written by Swift and Ryan Tedder, the song was inspired by Swift's relocation to New York City in April 2014. Its lyrics explore a newfound freedom in the city and a lighthearted attitude towards past heartbreaks.
Swift, Tedder, and Noel Zancanella produced "Welcome to New York", a track driven by pulsing synthesizers, programmed drums, and multitracked vocals. Music critics described the genre as synth-pop, electropop, and disco. The song was released for download on October 20, 2014, a week ahead of 1989's release. "Welcome to New York" received mixed reviews from critics, most of whom criticized the lyrics as unsophisticated for a New York tribute song. Some defenders praised the production as bright and catchy and interpreted the lyrics as being supportive of LGBT rights.
The song peaked within the top 20 of music charts in Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Hungary, and Scotland. In the United States, it reached number 48 on the Billboard Hot 100 and was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America. Swift donated all proceeds from the sales to the New York City Department of Education. She included the track in the set list of the 1989 World Tour (2015) and performed it on a few dates of her later tours. Following the 2019 dispute regarding the ownership of Swift's back catalog, she re-recorded the song as "Welcome to New York (Taylor's Version)" for her re-recorded album 1989 (Taylor's Version) (2023).