Title: Ferdinand Marcos
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ferdinand_Marcos
Summary: Ferdinand Emmanuel Edralin Marcos Sr. (September 11, 1917 – September 28, 1989) was a Filipino lawyer, dictator, and kleptocrat who served as the tenth president of the Philippines from 1965 to 1986. From 1972 to 1981, Marcos ruled the Philippines under martial law, embracing a policy of "constitutional authoritarianism." Following the lifting of martial law in 1981, a wide-ranging economic crisis, and the assassination of Ninoy Aquino, Marcos was deposed in 1986 by the People Power Revolution and was succeeded as president by Aquino's widow, Corazon Aquino. He was also the father of Bongbong Marcos, the incumbent president of the Philippines since 2022.
Marcos was born in Ilocos Norte in 1917. His father, Mariano Marcos, was a lawyer and politician who was later executed by guerillas for collaboration with the Japanese Army during World War II. In 1940, Marcos and his father were convicted of assassinating a political rival, Julio Nalundasan, but the conviction was overturned on appeal. Marcos joined the United States Army after the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 and fought the Japanese, who held him as a prisoner of war in 1942. After the war, he practiced law and was elected to represent Ilocos Norte in the Philippines House of Representatives from 1949 to 1959. He was elected to the Senate of the Philippines from 1959 to 1965, and served as Senate president from 1963 to 1965. He advanced his political career by exaggerating his military record, fraudulently including claims that he was "the most decorated war hero in the Philippines."
In 1965, Marcos was elected to his first term as president; he was re-elected in 1969. His initial policies included massive infrastructure development and construction, which made him popular but were funded by foreign lending. During his second term, debt and inflation crises and growing Philippine involvement in the Vietnam War triggered domestic social unrest. In 1972, Marcos declared martial law, ruling the country as a dictator until 1981. His rule was ratified through a 1973 plebiscite administered and overseen by the military. During this period, the constitution was revised to empower Marcos, and media outlets and opposition politicians were silenced. The Marcos regime used violence to suppress political opposition, including Muslims and suspected communists, whom he declared a threat to the Philippines. He referred to his ideology during this period as the "movement for a new society" and founded the political party Kilusang Bagong Lipunan to advance his ideas.
After the formal end of martial law in 1981, Marcos was elected to a third term. His popularity suffered in 1983, however, due to an economic collapse and the assassination of Ninoy Aquino, leader-in-exile of the opposition. Disapproval manifested in the resurgence of the political opposition in the 1984 parliamentary elections. Subsequent investigative reporting on his family's extensive overseas financial holdings and false war records led Marcos to call snap elections in 1986. He was challenged by Aquino's widow, Corazon Aquino. Although official results declared Marcos the victor, allegations of mass electoral fraud, political turmoil, and human rights abuses led to the People Power Revolution of February 1986, which ultimately removed him from power after two decades. On advice from United States president Ronald Reagan, the Marcos family fled to Hawaii, where he died in 1989.

Marcos remains a controversial figure in the Philippines, with his period of rule widely condemned as a kleptocracy and infamous for corruption, extravagance, and brutality. His wife, Imelda Marcos, became infamous in her own right for the excesses that characterized their "conjugal dictatorship", coining the term Imeldific, and the family allegedly stole as much as $10 billion from the Central Bank of the Philippines during his rule. Despite his removal from office and death in exile, many members of the Marcos regime remained in politics, including Fidel Ramos, who succeeded Aquino as president in 1992. His children, Imee and Bongbong Marcos, remain active in Philippine politics, with Bongbong serving as president since 2022. They have denied accusations of human rights violations by their parents.

Title: Imee Marcos
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imee_Marcos
Summary: Maria Imelda Josefa Remedios "Imee" Romualdez Marcos-Manotoc (locally [ˈaɪmi ˈmaɾkɔs]; born November 12, 1955) is a Filipino politician and film producer and film actress serving as a senator since 2019. She previously served as governor of Ilocos Norte from 2010 to 2019 and as the representative of Ilocos Norte's 2nd district from 1998 to 2007. She is a daughter of dictator and president Ferdinand Marcos and convicted former first lady Imelda Marcos, and the older sister of the current president, Bongbong Marcos.
Imee Marcos' political career began during her father's martial law regime, becoming chairperson of the Kabataang Barangay (KB) Foundation in 1977 and a member of the Batasang Pambansa in 1984. It was during her KB term that activist Archimedes Trajano was abducted, tortured, and murdered in 1977 shortly after publicly questioning her appointment to the office. With her interest in media, she produced various film projects such as Nonoy Marcelo-directed propaganda films: the 1977 documentary Da Real Makoy and the 1978 television film Tadhana, the first Philippine animated feature film; she helped establish the Metro Manila Popular Music Festival in 1978, and was made director general of the Experimental Cinema of the Philippines in 1982. After her family was ousted from power in the People Power Revolution of 1986, she and her husband Tommy Manotoc were exiled in Morocco.
After the death of Ferdinand Marcos in 1989, President Corazon Aquino allowed the Marcoses to return to the Philippines in 1991. Imee ran for political office in 1998, and won three terms in the House of Representatives and three terms as governor of Ilocos Norte. She was elected to the Senate in the 2019 elections for a six-year term. She ran for re-election in the 2025 midterm  elections, and won placing 12th, securing a second term.
Imee Marcos's conviction in the 1993 Trajano v. Marcos case (978 F 2d 493) before the U.S. district court in Honolulu is noted in U.S. legal circles for exposing the weaknesses of the act of state doctrine, allowing for similar suits to be filed.
She has been linked to the stolen wealth of her family, identified as a beneficiary of various Marcos offshore holdings as revealed in the Panama Papers and the findings in the court convictions of her mother Imelda Marcos. These holdings were defined as "ill-gotten wealth" by the Supreme Court of the Philippines, and are the subject of repatriation efforts by the Presidential Commission on Good Government. Amidst the growing rift between the Marcos and Duterte families during her brother Bongbong's administration, she has frequently sided with the Dutertes and their allies.

Title: Workers' resistance against the Marcos dictatorship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Workers%27_resistance_against_the_Marcos_dictatorship
Summary: During the presidency of Ferdinand Marcos, Filipino workers in the labor industry experienced the effects of government corruption, crony capitalism, and cheap labor for foreign transnational industries, One of the objectives of Martial Law was to cheapen labor costs, in order to attract transnational corporations to export labor to the Philippines. Marcos signed many presidential decrees beneficial only to his associates, while allowing for the forced relocation of indigenous peoples, decreasing workers' wages, and murders of labor activists. Minimum wage was a fixed PHP8.00 per day. Many workers were unemployed or underemployed. It was also during the Marcos presidency when the practice of contractualization began, enabling managements to avoid giving regular, permanent status to employees after six months of work. Strikes were banned and the government controlled trade unions, leaving workers without effective protection against employers who had unfair labor practices and regulations.
Furthermore, with each year under Martial Law, economic conditions deteriorated due to a large trade deficit. Between 1974 and 1981, the trade deficit increased from $418 million to $2.2 billion, while the foreign debt increased from $5.1 million to $14.8 billion in 1976 and 1981. A study by the World Bank found that Philippine poverty increased between 1972 and 1978. Real wages for skilled for workers in urban areas fell by 23.8%, and for unskilled laborers the decline was 31.6%. Authors of the study concluded that "purchasing power has dropped in both urban and rural areas, in all regions, and practically all occupations," and the gap between rich and poor is "worse in the Philippines than elsewhere in the [Southeast Asian] region. In this context, the material conditions of the working class was greatly in contrast to the lavish opulence of crony capitalism under of the Marcos regime. These are some of the factors that propelled workers to resist the Marcos dictatorship.
These workers protested against the Marcos regime in forms of silent strikes, sit-down strikes, work slowdowns, mass leaves and the stretching of the break period.
The first major strike against the dictatorship was in La Tondeña, then the largest distillery in Asia. The workers protested and continued to do so despite the ban. In the following months, around 200 strikes broke out nationwide, with 80,000 participating. In Manila alone, there were 25 strikes, with 40,000 participating. In 1981, after Marcos nominally lifted Martial Law, 260 strikes took place, with over 76,000 workers involved. Labor unions against the dictatorship increased in number and strength under martial law.

Title: Sandro Marcos
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandro_Marcos
Summary: Ferdinand Alexander "Sandro" Araneta Marcos III (UK:  MAR-koss, US:  -⁠kohss, -⁠kawss, Tagalog: [ˈmaɾkɔs]; born March 7, 1994) is Filipino politician who has served as the House majority leader since 2025. A member of the Partido Federal ng Pilipinas (PFP), he has concurrently served as the representative of Ilocos Norte's first district, an office he has held since 2022. He is the eldest son of President Bongbong Marcos and First Lady Liza Araneta Marcos.

Title: Rafael Alunan III
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rafael_Alunan_III
Summary: Rafael "Raffy" Moreno Alunan III (born May 17, 1948) is a Filipino businessman and former government official. He is a former Tourism and Interior and Local Government Secretary of the Philippines.