Title: Natus Vincere
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natus_Vincere
Summary: Natus Vincere (Latin for "born to win"), commonly referred to by the abbreviated name NAVI (formerly Na`Vi), is a Ukrainian esports organization based in Kyiv. Founded in 2009, the organization has teams and players competing in various games, such as Counter-Strike 2, Dota 2, FIFA, Brawl Stars, World of Tanks, Paladins, PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds, Clash of Clans, Apex Legends, Rainbow Six Siege, Mobile Legends: Bang Bang, Fortnite, VALORANT, and League of Legends. NAVI's VALORANT team is currently a partnered member of VCT EMEA, while their MLBB division is a franchised team in MPL Indonesia and their League division is a franchised team in the League of Legends EMEA Championship (LEC).

Title: Mobile Legends: Bang Bang
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobile_Legends:_Bang_Bang
Summary: Mobile Legends: Bang Bang (MLBB), commonly referred to simply as Mobile Legends (ML), is a multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) game developed and published by Moonton. Since its release in 2016, MLBB has been free-to-play and is monetized through purchasable character and cosmetic customization. The game is primarily played on smartphones and tablets and is available for iOS, Android and HarmonyOS.
In its core modes, Classic and Ranked, the game places two teams of five players against each other in real time, with matchmaking usually taking 20 to 60 seconds (usually depends on how high your rank is) and matches lasting between 10 and 30 minutes on average. Following the classic MOBA format, players compete across three lanes, the goal to destroy the opposing base while defending their own and securing objectives to gain an advantage. Outcomes are determined by player skill, strategy, and teamwork rather than paid progression. The game also features a Brawl mode, in which teams compete on a single lane using randomly assigned heroes in shorter, fast-paced matches, typically played casually or to complete in-game tasks.
Following its success, Moonton has tapped into the esports scene with the creation of several regional tournaments dubbed as Mobile Legends: Bang Bang Professional League (MPL) that serves as a qualifier for the Mobile Legends World Championships from teams worldwide. The game is particularly popular in East and Southeast Asia and was among the six titles selected for the inaugural esports medal event at the 2019 Southeast Asian Games (SEA Games). It has since continued as a featured title at the 2021, 2023 and 2025 editions. The game has also seen some popularity in Europe. In January 2026, the Esports World Cup Foundation (EWCF) announced the game as the first of the 16 "world-class titles" that national teams will compete in at the inaugural Esports Nations Cup 2026 (ENC). The game will also debut as a medaled event at the 2026 Asian Games.
In 2026, MLBB Esports transitions into a five-region structure—Southeast Asia (SEA); Eastern Europe and Central Asia (EECA); Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA); East Asia (EA); and the Americas (AMER). This framework unifies the global MLBB Esports ecosystem while empowering each region through tailored infrastructure and talent development pathways.
The M7 World Championship, held January 3-25, 2026 in Jakarta, Indonesia, became the most-watched mobile esports tournament in history. According to Esports Charts, the Grand Finals reached over 5.68 million peak concurrent viewers—a new record for mobile esports. June 24, the MLBB Asian Games Qualifiers became the most-watched esports tournament in Asian Games history by generating 9.1 million hours watched. The Grand Finals of rebranded MLBB Women's International (MWI) at 2026 Esports World Cup in Paris reached over 565k peak concurrent users, setting a new record for EWC women's esports. MLBB Mid-Season Cup (MSC) also set a viewership record at the 2026 Esports World Cup (EWC), reaching 2.88 million peak concurrent viewers (PCV)—the highest figure of any tournament at EWC 2026.
Originally titled Mobile Legends: 5v5 MOBA, the game was first released in 2016 and became widely popular, as it was the first fully mobile-based MOBA with no direct competition, albeit not the first of its kind due to being released later than other games such as Vainglory. It however faced some criticism for its perceived similarities to League of Legends, which at the time had no official mobile version. As a result, Riot Games filed lawsuits against Moonton for alleged copyright infringement in 2017 and 2022. While they were awarded some damages, they failed to have the game removed. A 2022 lawsuit in the United States was dismissed, with the court ruling that the case should be heard in China. Ultimately, Riot Games and Moonton reached a settlement in 2024, resolving all intellectual property disputes. In 2020, the game was banned in India following the 2020 China–India skirmishes, though it is still played via virtual private networks (VPNs) and crossed 1 billion downloads worldwide. In 2025, it faced a brief, unenforced United States ban under the Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act due to its ByteDance ownership. This association was severed in 2026 when Moonton was acquired by the Saudi-based Savvy Games Group.

Title: 2024 League of Legends World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_League_of_Legends_World_Championship
Summary: The 2024 League of Legends World Championship (German: League of Legends Weltmeisterschaft 2024; French: Le Championnat du Monde 2024 de League of Legends) was an esports tournament for the multiplayer online battle arena video game League of Legends. It was the fourteenth iteration of the League of Legends World Championship, an annual international tournament organised by the game's developer, Riot Games. The tournament was held from 25 September to 2 November in Berlin, Paris, and London. It marked the third time Germany and France hosted the event after the 2015 and 2019 editions, while it was the second World Championship to be held in England, United Kingdom since 2015. Twenty teams qualified for the event based on placement within their regional leagues and results gained in the 2024 Mid-Season Invitational (MSI).
The finals took place on 2 November at The O2 Arena in London, where T1 of the League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) successfully defended their title after defeating Bilibili Gaming of the League of Legends Pro League (LPL) 3–2 to win the organization's record-extending fifth World Championship.

Title: Aurora Gaming
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aurora_Gaming
Summary: Aurora Gaming, or simply Aurora (stylized in all caps), is an esports organization. Founded in Serbia in 2022, Aurora currently fields professional rosters in Apex Legends, Counter-Strike 2 (CS2), Dota 2, Warcraft III, Free Fire and Mobile Legends: Bang Bang (MLBB) competitions. Its MLBB teams are based in the Philippines and Turkey.

Title: 2025 League of Legends World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_League_of_Legends_World_Championship
Summary: The 2025 League of Legends World Championship (Chinese: 2025英雄联盟全球总决赛) was an esports tournament for the multiplayer online battle arena video game League of Legends, held in China from 14 October to 9 November in Beijing, Shanghai, and Chengdu. It was the fifteenth iteration of the League of Legends World Championship, an annual international tournament organised by the game's developer, Riot Games.
China hosted the event for the third time, having previously hosted it in 2017 and 2020. It was the first edition held under Riot Games' new split structure and competitive calendar, and the first to feature the Fearless Draft format. Seventeen teams qualified based on placement within their regional leagues and results gained in the 2025 Mid-Season Invitational (MSI).
The finals took place at the Dong'an Lake Sports Park Multifunctional Gymnasium in Chengdu, where T1 of the League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) successfully defended their title once again after defeating fellow Korean representatives KT Rolster with a 3–2 scoreline. The organization subsequently won its record-extending sixth World Championship, and became the first team to win three consecutive world titles. The final's MVP was awarded to Lee "Gumayusi" Min-hyeong, who became the first ADC player to win the award since Park "Ruler" Jae-hyuk in 2017.