Title: COEP Technological University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COEP_Technological_University
Summary: The College of Engineering Pune (COEP) Technological University is a unitary public university of the Government of Maharashtra, situated in Pune, Maharashtra, India. Established in 1854, it is the 3rd oldest engineering education institute in India, after the College of Engineering, Guindy (1794) and IIT Roorkee (1847). The students and alumni are colloquially referred to as COEPians.
On 23 June 2022, the Government of Maharashtra issued a notification regarding upgrading the college to an independent technological university. On 24 March 2022, both the houses of the state government passed the CoEP Technological University bill, which has conferred a unitary state university status on the institute.

Title: Somerville High School (Massachusetts)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Somerville_High_School_(Massachusetts)
Summary: Somerville High School is a public, four-year high school in Somerville, Massachusetts, United States. The school offers a wide selection of classes and vocational programs.
Classes offered include English, social studies, mathematics, science, world languages, music, performing arts, visual arts, TV and media production, and computer applications. There are vocational programs in health careers, childhood development, electrical work, carpentry, auto repair, advanced manufacturing, graphic communications, drafting, cosmetology, culinary arts, and metal fabrication.

Title: Guy Martin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guy_Martin
Summary: Guy Martin (born 4 November 1981) is a British former motorcycle racer, heavy vehicle mechanic and television presenter. He retired from motorcycle racing in July 2017.
Martin started racing in 1998 and in 2004 competed on a road circuit for the first time at the Isle of Man TT. He has a total of 17 podium finishes at TT events. He has broken his back twice in racing accidents, in the 2010 TT and the 2015 Ulster Grand Prix.
In August 2017, Martin joined Formula 1 car team Williams' pit-crew for the Belgian GP. Martin returned to road racing in May 2019 at the Tandragee 100 in Northern Ireland.
Martin starred in Closer to the Edge, a 2011 documentary on TT racing. He has since presented programmes on various engineering topics, as well as the Channel 4 series Speed with Guy Martin when he set speed records in a variety of human and engine powered vehicles. He has also written four books, and competed in mountain bike pedal-cycle races.

Title: Roborace
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roborace
Summary: Roborace was a competition with autonomously driving, electrically powered vehicles. Founded in 2015 by Denis Sverdlov, it aimed to be the first global championship for autonomous cars. From 2017 to 2019, the official CEO was 2016–17 Formula E champion, Lucas Di Grassi, who later became a member of Roborace’s supervisory board. The series tested their technology and race formats at FIA Formula E Championship events during 2016–2018. In 2019 Roborace organized Season Alpha, which consisted of 4 trial racing events with several independent teams competing against each other for the first time. In 2020–21 Roborace held Season Beta with 7 competing teams. All teams utilized the same chassis and powertrain, but they had to develop their own real-time computing algorithms and artificial intelligence technologies.
In May 2022, Arrival, the owner of Roborace, confirmed that they were no longer continuing the Roborace programme, but that they were hoping to find alternative funding. In February 2024, after getting its stock delisted from the Nasdaq, Arrival's UK division entered administration, with future plans of a sale of Arrival and all of its affiliated assets.

Title: VEX Robotics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VEX_Robotics
Summary: VEX Robotics is a robotics program for elementary through university students, and a subset of Innovation First International. The VEX Robotics competitions and programs were overseen by the Robotics Education & Competition Foundation (RECF) until May 2026, when VEX split from the foundation and created the Global Robotics & Science Foundation (GRSF) to oversee competition. VEX Robotics Competition was named the largest robotics competition in the world by Guinness World Records. 
There are four leagues of VEX Robotics competitions designed for different age groups and skill levels. The VEX V5 Robotics Competition (V5RC), the largest, is targeted toward middle and high school students. The VEX IQ Robotics Competition (VIQRC) is targeted toward elementary and middle school students. The VEX AI Robotics Competition is a 'spinoff' for high school and college-level students. The competition features no driver control periods, hence the name 'VEX AI'. VEX U is a robotics competition for university students. The game is similar to V5RC, but traditionally features a unique ruleset with more relaxed rules on the construction of their robots, and teams consisting of two robots.
In each of the four competitions, the VEX Robotics Game Design Committee creates a new challenge annually. Students must then design, build, program, and drive a robot to complete the challenge as best they can within the constraints. After competing in local and regional tournaments, qualifying teams are invited to attend the VEX Robotics World Championship.
The description and rules for the season's competition are released during the world championship of the previous season. From 2021 to 2025, the VEX Robotics World Championship was held in Dallas, Texas each year in mid-April or mid-May, depending on which league the teams are competing in. St. Louis, Missouri hosted the event in 2026 and is scheduled to hold the RECF STEM World Championship in 2027. VEX Robotics and the GRSF have not confirmed which city will host the event for the 2027 VEX Robotics World Championship.