Title: BlackBerry Limited
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BlackBerry_Limited
Summary: BlackBerry Limited, formerly Research In Motion (RIM),  is a Canadian software company specializing in secure communications and the Internet of Things (IoT). Founded in 1984, it was known for developing the BlackBerry brand of wireless mobile devices from 1999 to 2016. After the mobile division was spun off into BlackBerry Mobile in 2016 until its discontinuation in 2020, BlackBerry Limited transitioned to providing software and services and holds critical software application patents.
Initially leading the emerging smartphone market in the late 2000s, the company struggled to gain a lasting presence against the iPhone and Android phones. BlackBerry led the smartphone market in many countries, particularly the United States until the announcement of the iPhone 4 in 2010, and in Indonesia throughout the early 2010s. In 2010, BlackBerry was worth more than Adidas, MTV or Ben & Jerry's. The company withered against the rapid rise of both Apple and Google. After the launch of BlackBerry 10, it transitioned to a cybersecurity enterprise software and services company under CEO John S. Chen. In 2018, the last BlackBerry smartphone, the BlackBerry Key2 LE, was released. In 2022, BlackBerry discontinued support for BlackBerry 10, ending their presence in the smartphone market.
BlackBerry's software products are used by various businesses, car manufacturers, and government agencies to prevent hacking and ransomware attacks. They include BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BlackBerry Unified Endpoint Manager) and a Unified Endpoint Management (UEM) platform.

Title: Lenovo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lenovo
Summary: Lenovo Group Limited, trading as Lenovo ( lə-NOH-voh, Chinese: 联想; pinyin: Liánxiǎng), is a Hong Kong–based Chinese multinational corporation and technology company specializing in designing, manufacturing, and marketing consumer electronics, personal computers, software, servers, converged and hyperconverged infrastructure solutions, and related services. Its smartphone brand is Motorola. Its global headquarters are in Beijing, China, and Morrisville, North Carolina, in the United States;  it has research centers at these locations, elsewhere in mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, in Stuttgart, Germany, and in Yamato, Kanagawa, Japan.
Lenovo originated as an offshoot of a state-owned research institute. Then known as Legend and distributing foreign IT products, co-founder Liu Chuanzhi incorporated Legend in Hong Kong in an attempt to raise capital and was successfully permitted to build computers in China, helped by the American company AST Research. Legend listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 1994 and became the largest PC manufacturer in China and eventually in Asia; they were also domestic distributors for HP printers, Toshiba laptops, and others. After the company rebranded itself to Lenovo, it merged with IBM's PC business which produced its ThinkPad line in 2005, after which it rapidly expanded abroad. In 2013, Lenovo became the world's largest personal computer vendor by unit sales for the first time, a position it still holds as of 2024.
Products manufactured by the company include desktop computers, laptops, tablet computers, smartphones, workstations, servers, supercomputers, data storage devices, IT management software, and smart televisions. Its best-known brands include its ThinkPad business line of notebooks, the IdeaPad, Yoga, LOQ, and Legion consumer lines of notebooks, and the IdeaCentre, LOQ, Legion, and ThinkCentre lines of desktops. Lenovo is also part of a joint venture with NEC, named Lenovo NEC Holdings, that produces personal computers for the Japanese market. The company also operates Motorola Mobility, which produces smartphones.

Title: IPhone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPhone
Summary: The iPhone is a line of smartphones developed and marketed by Apple that run iOS, the company's own mobile operating system. The first-generation iPhone was announced by then–Apple CEO and co-founder Steve Jobs on January 9, 2007, at Macworld 2007, and first launched in June 2007. Since then, Apple has annually released new iPhone models and iOS versions; the latest models are the iPhone 17, the entry-level iPhone 17e, the iPhone Air, the higher-end iPhone 18 Pro and Pro Max, and the iPhone Duo. As of July 2025, more than 3 billion iPhones have been sold. Apple has been the largest vendor of mobile phones since 2023.
The original iPhone was the first mobile phone to use multi-touch technology. Throughout its history, the iPhone has gained larger, higher-resolution displays, video-recording functionality, waterproofing, and many accessibility features. Up to the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus, iPhones had a single button on the front panel, with the iPhone 5s and later integrating a Touch ID fingerprint sensor. Since the iPhone X, models have switched to a nearly bezel-less front screen design with Face ID facial recognition in place of Touch ID for authentication, and increased use of gestures in place of the home button for navigation.
The iPhone, which operates using Apple's proprietary iOS operating system, is one of the two major smartphone platforms in the world, alongside Android. The first-generation iPhone was described by Steve Jobs as a "revolution" for the mobile phone industry. The iPhone has been credited with popularizing the slate smartphone form factor, and with creating a large market for smartphone apps, or "app economy", laying the foundation for the mobile-device market boom. In addition to the apps that come pre-installed on iOS, there are nearly 2 million apps available for download from Apple's mobile distribution marketplace, the App Store, as of August 2024.

Title: Usage share of operating systems
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_operating_systems
Summary: The usage share of an operating system is the percentage of computers running that operating system (OS). These statistics are estimates as usage data is difficult to obtain and measure. Reliable primary sources are limited and data collection methodology is not formally agreed upon.
Devices connecting to the World Wide Web log which operating system they are using, and so are an approximate measure of OS usage among consumer devices. As of December 2025, among all devices Android, which uses the Linux kernel, is the world's most common operating system to connect to the web with 34.9% of the global market, followed by Windows with 29.98%, iOS with 16.81%, macOS with 2.03%, and other operating systems with 9.06% total.
Between different classes of devices:

For smartphones and other mobile devices, Android has 72% share of traffic, and Apple's iOS has 28%.
For desktop computers and laptops, Microsoft Windows has 62.16%, followed by unknown operating systems at 18.75%, Mac OS at 14.58%, desktop Linux at 3.09%, then Google's ChromeOS at 1.42%, as of June 2026.
For tablets, Apple's iPadOS (a variant of iOS) has 51.23% share and Android has 48.61% worldwide.
Of the top 500 most powerful supercomputers, all since November 2017 have used Linux. 
The global server operating system market share has Linux leading with a 63.1% market share, followed by Windows, Unix and other operating systems.
The most numerous type of device with an operating system are embedded systems. Not all embedded systems have operating systems, instead running their application code on the "bare metal"; of those that do have operating systems, a high percentage are standalone or do not have a web browser, which makes their usage share difficult to measure. Some operating systems used in embedded systems are more widely used than some of those mentioned above. For example, modern Intel microprocessors contain an embedded management processor running a version of the Minix operating system.

Title: Lenovo smartphones
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lenovo_smartphones
Summary: Lenovo smartphones are marketed as the "LePhone" in mainland China, and as the "IdeaPhone" overseas (designed and manufactured by the Motorola Mobility, ZUK Mobile and Medion, divisions of Lenovo). On April 27, 2017, Lenovo announced that the ZUK brand would cease operations. In 2015, Lenovo subsumed its own smartphone division into the acquired Motorola brand.