Title: Shonda Rhimes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shonda_Rhimes
Summary: Shonda Lynn Rhimes (born January 13, 1970) is an American television producer and screenwriter, and founder of the production company Shondaland. Rhimes became known as the first showrunner—creator, head writer and executive producer—of the medical drama Grey's Anatomy (2005–present), its spin-off Private Practice (2007–2013) and the political thriller Scandal (2012–2018), becoming the first African American female showrunner to create three television dramas that have achieved the 100 episode milestone.
Rhimes has served as the executive producer of the ABC thriller series How to Get Away with Murder (2014–2020), the Netflix period series Bridgerton (2020–present) and Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story (2023) and crime drama Inventing Anna (2022). She has been nominated five times for a Primetime Emmy Award, won a Golden Globe Award and a Daytime Emmy Award, and received special honors at the British Academy Television Awards and  International Emmy Awards.
In 2015, Rhimes was inducted into the NAB Broadcasting Hall of Fame. In 2017, she was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame and became a Chair's Appointee of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences's executive committee. She is also part of the USC Film Council and the Writers Guild Inclusion Committee.
In 2007, 2013, and 2021, Rhimes was named by Time to the Time 100, their annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world. As of 2023, she is one of the richest women entertainers in America, with a net worth of $250 million. In 2015, she published her first book, a memoir, Year of Yes: How to Dance It Out, Stand in the Sun, and Be Your Own Person. In 2016, Rhimes formed The Rhimes Family Foundation whose mission is to support arts, education, and activism.

Title: List of Netflix original programming
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Netflix_original_programming
Summary: Netflix is an American global streaming-on-demand media provider that since 2007 has distributed many original streaming television shows, including original series, specials, miniseries, documentaries and films. Netflix's original productions also include continuations of canceled series from other networks, as well as licensing or co-producing content from international broadcasters for exclusive broadcast in other territories, which are also branded in those regions as Netflix original content. Netflix previously produced content through Red Envelope Entertainment. The company has since increased its original content. All programming is in English unless stated otherwise, is organized by its primary genre or format, and is sorted by premiere date. These shows had their original production commissioned by Netflix, or had additional seasons commissioned by Netflix.

Title: Heeramandi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heeramandi
Summary: Heeramandi: The Diamond Bazaar is a 2024 Indian Hindi-language period drama television series created and directed by Sanjay Leela Bhansali. Set in the red-light district of Heera Mandi in Lahore during the Indian independence movement, the series explores the lives of tawaifs and their intersection with political and personal struggles under British colonial rule. The ensemble cast includes Manisha Koirala, Sonakshi Sinha, Aditi Rao Hydari, Richa Chadha, Sanjeeda Sheikh, Sharmin Segal, and Taha Shah Badussha.
The series premiered on Netflix on 1 May 2024 and received mixed reviews from critics. In June 2024, it was renewed for a second season.
At the 2024 Filmfare OTT Awards, Heeramandi: The Diamond Bazaar received a leading 17 nominations, including Best Drama Series, Best Director in a Drama Series (for Bhansali), and Best Supporting Actress in a Drama Series (for both Chadha and Sheikh), and won 5 awards, including Best Actress in a Drama Series (for Koirala).

Title: Senna (miniseries)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Senna_(miniseries)
Summary: Senna is a Brazilian biographical drama television miniseries created by Vicente Amorim and directed by Amorim and Júlia Rezende, based on the life of racing driver Ayrton Senna, and starring Gabriel Leone as Senna. The series was produced by Brazilian studio Gullane Entretenimento with funding from American studio Netflix, in collaboration with the Senna family. Budgeted at $170 million, it is the most expensive Brazilian television series in history.
The series was released on Netflix on 29 November 2024. It received mixed reviews from critics, who praised Leone's performance, the production design, and the racing scenes, but criticised the character development, historical inaccuracies and perceived bias. It received a nomination for Best Foreign Language Series at the 30th Critics' Choice Awards.

Title: Monster: The Ed Gein Story
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monster:_The_Ed_Gein_Story
Summary: Monster: The Ed Gein Story is the third season of the American biographical crime drama anthology television series Monster, created by Ian Brennan for Netflix. The season focuses on convicted murderer, graverobber, and suspected serial killer Ed Gein, portrayed by Charlie Hunnam. The cast also includes Suzanna Son, Vicky Krieps, Laurie Metcalf, and Tom Hollander. The season incorporates meta commentary on the cultural obsession with true crime, exploring Gein's influence on Hollywood and pop culture.
It is the third installment in the Monster anthology series, following Monster: The Jeffrey Dahmer Story (2022) and Monsters: The Lyle and Erik Menendez Story (2024). A season based on Ed Gein was announced to be in development on September 14, 2024. It is the first season not helmed by Murphy, with Brennan serving as the sole creator and writer.
Upon its premiere on October 3, 2025, the season received negative reviews and was deemed inferior to its predecessors, with critics panning its meta commentary, subplots, runtime, excessive graphic violence, and factual inaccuracies. While critical responses to Hunnam's performance were divided, he ultimately received nominations for a Primetime Emmy Award, a Golden Globe Award, an Actors Award, and a Critics' Choice Television Award. The season received seven nominations at the 78th Primetime Emmy Awards.
A fourth season, titled Monster: The Lizzie Borden Story, is based on parricide suspect Lizzie Borden and is scheduled to be released on September 17, 2026.