Title: Alaska
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alaska
Summary: Alaska ( , ə-LASS-kə) is a U.S. state located in the northwestern regions of North America. Part of the Western United States region, it is one of the two non-contiguous U.S. states, alongside Hawaii. Alaska is considered to be the northernmost, westernmost, and, longitudinally, the easternmost state in the United States. It is a semi-exclave of the U.S., bordering the Canadian territory of Yukon and the province of British Columbia to the east. It shares a western maritime border in the Bering Strait with Russia's Chukotka Autonomous Okrug, and is closer to another continent (Asia) than any other U.S. state. The Chukchi and Beaufort Seas of the Arctic Ocean lie to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the south.
Alaska is the largest U.S. state by area—comprising more total area than the next three largest states of Texas, California, and Montana combined—and is the world's largest semi-exclave and seventh-largest subnational division. With a population of 740,133 in 2024, it is the third-least populous and most sparsely populated state in the U.S., but the most populous territory in North America located mostly north of the 60th parallel, with more than quadruple the combined populations of Northern Canada and Greenland. Alaska contains the four largest cities in the United States by area, including its capital, Juneau. Alaska's most populous city is Anchorage, and approximately half the state's residents live within its metropolitan area.
Indigenous people have lived in Alaska for thousands of years, and it is widely believed that the region served as the entry point for the initial settlement of the Americas by way of the Bering land bridge. The Russian Empire was the first to actively colonize the area beginning in the 18th century, eventually establishing Russian America, which spanned most of the current state and promoted and maintained a native Alaskan Creole population. The expense and logistical difficulty of maintaining this distant possession prompted its sale to the U.S. in 1867 for US$7.2 million, equivalent to $166 million in 2025. The area went through several administrative changes before becoming organized as a territory on May 11, 1912. It was admitted as the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
An abundance of natural resources—including commercial fishing and the extraction of natural gas and oil—has enabled Alaska to have one of the highest per capita incomes in the United States, despite having one of the smallest economies. U.S. Armed Forces bases and tourism also contribute to the economy; more than half of Alaska is federally owned, containing national forests, national parks, and wildlife refuges. It is among the most irreligious states and one of the first to legalize recreational marijuana. Alaska has the highest proportion of Native Americans of any U.S. state, at 22 percent.

Title: University of Pennsylvania
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Pennsylvania
Summary: The University of Pennsylvania (Penn or UPenn) is a private Ivy League research university in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. Chartered in 1755 by its first president Benjamin Franklin, who advocated for an educational institution that trained leaders in academia, commerce, and public service, it is one of nine colonial colleges in the country.
The university has 4 undergraduate schools and 12 graduate and professional schools. Schools enrolling undergraduates include the College of Arts and Sciences, the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the Wharton School, and the School of Nursing. Among its graduate schools are its law school, whose first professor, James Wilson, helped write the U.S. Constitution, and its medical school, the first in North America.
In fiscal year 2024, Penn reported $2.172 billion in research expenditures, ranking second among U.S. universities in the National Science Foundation's Higher Education Research and Development (HERD) survey. As of June 30, 2025, Penn's endowment was $24.808 billion. The main campus is in the University City neighborhood of West Philadelphia, centered around College Hall. Campus landmarks include Houston Hall, described as the first student union building in the United States, and Franklin Field, which has hosted college football since 1895 and was expanded into a two-tier stadium in 1922. The university's athletics program, the Penn Quakers, fields varsity teams in 33 sports as a member of NCAA Division I's Ivy League conference.
Penn alumni, trustees, and faculty include 8 signers of the Declaration of Independence, 7 signers of the U.S. Constitution, 24 members of the Continental Congress, 3 presidents of the United States, 38 Nobel laureates, 9 foreign heads of state, 3 United States Supreme Court justices, at least 4 Supreme Court justices of foreign nations, 32 U.S. senators, 163 members of the U.S. House of Representatives, 19 U.S. Cabinet secretaries, 46 governors, 28 state supreme court justices, 36 living undergraduate billionaires, the only person to ever reach trillionaire status, 6 recipients of the Medal of Honor, and more than 200 Olympic athletes, 43 of whom earned 81 medals (26 of them gold).

Title: Western United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_United_States
Summary: The Western United States (also called the American West, the Western States, the Far West, the Western territories, and the West) is one of the four census regions defined by the United States Census Bureau.
As American settlement in the U.S. expanded westward, the meaning of the term the West changed. Before around 1800, the crest of the Appalachian Mountains was seen as the western frontier. The frontier moved westward and eventually the lands west of the Mississippi River were considered the West.
The U.S. Census Bureau's definition of the 13 westernmost states includes the Rocky Mountains and the Great Basin to the Pacific Coast, Alaska and the mid-Pacific islands state, Hawaii. To the east of the Western United States is the Midwestern United States and the Southern United States, with Canada to the north and Mexico to the south.
The West contains several major biomes, including arid and semi-arid plateaus and plains, particularly in the American Southwest; forested mountains, including three major ranges, the Sierra Nevada, the Cascades, and Rocky Mountains; the long coastal shoreline of the Pacific Coast; and the rainforests of the Pacific Northwest.

Title: New York City
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_City
Summary: New York, often called New York City (NYC), is the most populous city in the United States.  It is located at the southern tip of New York State on New York Harbor, one of the world's largest natural harbors. The city comprises five boroughs—Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx, and Staten Island—each being coextensive with its respective county. It is the geographical and demographic center of both the Northeast megalopolis and the New York metropolitan area, the largest metropolitan area in the United States by both population and urban area. New York is a global center of technology, finance and commerce, culture, entertainment and media, academics and scientific output, the arts and fashion—and as home to the headquarters of the United Nations, international diplomacy. New York City is known for its fast pace and continuous urban energy.
With an estimated population of 8,584,629 in July 2025, distributed over 300.46 square miles (778.2 km2), New York is the most densely populated major city in the United States. New York City has more than double the population of Los Angeles, the country's second-most populous city. More than 20.1 million people live in New York City's metropolitan statistical area, and over 23.5 million people live in its combined statistical area as of 2020; both are the largest in the U.S. New York City is one of the world's most populous megacities. The city and its metropolitan area serve as the premier gateway for legal immigration to the United States. An estimated 800 languages are spoken in New York City, making it the most linguistically diverse city in the world. The New York City metropolitan region is home to the largest foreign-born population of any metropolitan region in the world, numbering approximately 5.9 million people as of 2023.
Manhattan Island was inhabited by Munsee-speaking Lenape around 1624. By then, Dutch colonists had established Fort Amsterdam as a center of trade on the island. This was the first European settlement in what would become New York City. The settlement was named New Amsterdam in 1626 and was chartered as a city in 1653. The city came under English control in 1664 and was temporarily renamed New York after Charles II granted the lands to his brother, the Duke of York, before this name was permanently adopted in 1674. Following independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain, the city was the national capital of the United States from 1785 until 1790. The modern city was formed by the 1898 consolidation of its five boroughs.
Anchored by Wall Street in Manhattan's Financial District, New York City has been called both the world's premier financial and fintech center and the most economically powerful city in the world. As of 2024, the New York metropolitan area is the largest metropolitan economy in the world, with a gross metropolitan product of over US$2.44 trillion. The New York metropolitan area's economy is larger than all but nine countries. Despite having a 24/7 rapid transit system, New York also leads the world in urban automobile traffic congestion. The city is home to the world's two largest stock exchanges by market capitalization of their listed companies: the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. New York City is an established haven for global investors. 
As of 2025, New York City is the most expensive city in the world for expatriates and has the highest residential rent costs of any American city; New York County (Manhattan) is by a significant margin the most expensive U.S. county in terms of average home price per square foot and produces the highest U.S. county GDP by both absolute and per capita measures. Fifth Avenue is an ultra-luxury international shopping corridor that is undergoing additional infrastructure investment. Amidst escalating affordability concerns, New York City is home to the highest number of billionaires, individuals of ultra-high net worth (greater than US$30 million), and millionaires of any city in the world by a significant margin.

Title: List of colleges and universities in Texas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_colleges_and_universities_in_Texas
Summary: There are 234 colleges and universities in the State of Texas that are listed under the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. These institutions include thirty-four research universities, twenty-nine master's universities, ninety-two undergraduate schools, and seventy-one special-focus institutions. One hundred twenty-three of Texas' post-secondary institutions are private, of which fifty-four are for-profit. One hundred three of the state's post-secondary institutions are public.
Southwestern University is the state's oldest post-secondary institution, having been founded in 1840. Texas A&M University is the state's largest of higher learning in terms of enrollment and largest public university, having 77,491 students  while Southwest College for the Deaf is the state's smallest college with an enrollment of 48 in the fall of 2023. Texas is also home to a number of internationally recognized universities, including the University of Texas, Texas A&M University, and Rice University which are ranked among the top two hundred universities in the world.
Texas A&M University and Prairie View A&M University are the state's two public land-grant universities. There are also six Catholic post-secondary institutions, including St. Edward's University, University of Dallas, and University of the Incarnate Word. There are also four Southern Baptist post-secondary institutions in Texas, including Baylor University and Hardin-Simmons University. The state has sixteen medical schools, thirteen conventional and three Osteopathic programs. There are ten law schools, which are accredited by the American Bar Association, including Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law, Texas Tech University School of Law, and University of Houston Law Center. Two hundred sixteen of Texas post-secondary institutions are officially recognized by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), while most are accredited by multiple higher education accreditation agencies.