Title: List of female tennis players
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_female_tennis_players
Summary: This is a list of female tennis players who meet one or more of the following criteria:

Singles:
Officially ranked among the top 25 by the Women's Tennis Association (since 1975)
Ranked among the top 10 by an expert (e.g. A. Wallis Myers) before 1975
Reached the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam tournament
Reached the finals of or won the year-end championships
Won a medal at the Olympic Games
Doubles:
Won a Grand Slam tournament or year-end championship
Officially ranked No. 1 by the WTA (since 1984)
Won a medal at the Olympic Games

Title: US Open (tennis)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/US_Open_(tennis)
Summary: The US Open Tennis Championships, commonly called the US Open (stylized in all lowercase), is a hardcourt tennis tournament organized by the United States Tennis Association annually in Queens, New York City. It is chronologically the fourth and final of the four Grand Slam tennis events, held after the Australian Open, French Open, and Wimbledon.
The US Open starts on the Sunday immediately preceding the last Monday of August and continues for two weeks, with the middle weekend coinciding with the United States Labor Day holiday. All players participating must be at least fourteen years old. Since the start of the Open Era of tennis in 1968, the event has been open to both amateur and professional players.
The tournament is one of the oldest tennis championships in the world, originally known as the U.S. National Championships, for which men's singles and men's doubles were first played in August 1881. The tournament originally took place in Newport, Rhode Island from its inception until 1914. It is the only Grand Slam that was not affected by cancellation due to World War I and World War II, nor interrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020.
The tournament consists of five primary championships: men's and women's singles, men's and women's doubles, and mixed doubles. The tournament also includes events for senior, junior, and wheelchair players. Since 1978, the tournament has been played on acrylic hardcourts at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows–Corona Park, Queens, New York City. Revenue from ticket sales, sponsorships, and television contracts is used to develop tennis in the United States.
This tournament, from 1971 to 2021, employed standard tiebreakers (first to seven points, win by two) in every set of a singles match. Since 2022, revised tiebreak rules were initiated and standardized in the final set for all four majors, where if a match reaches six-all in the final set (the third for women and fifth for men), an extended tiebreaker (first to ten points, win by two) is played. The introduction of the extended tiebreaker in 2022 was part of a broader effort to standardize play across the Grand Slam tournaments, ensuring consistency in how matches are decided while also addressing player fatigue and match duration.

Title: Chronological list of women's Grand Slam tennis champions
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronological_list_of_women%27s_Grand_Slam_tennis_champions
Summary: Female tennis players who have won at least one of the four Grand Slam titles in singles. 133 women have won at least one of the 467 majors staged. They are listed here in order of their first win. Players in bold are still active.

Title: Sara Errani
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sara_Errani
Summary: Sara Errani (Italian: [ˈsaːra erˈraːni]; born 29 April 1987) is an Italian professional tennis player. Errani is one of only seven women who have completed a Career Golden Slam in doubles. She is an Olympic Games gold medalist, a former doubles world No. 1, ten-time major champion in doubles and mixed doubles and a finalist in singles. With 9 singles, 36 doubles and 5 mixed doubles titles, she is the Italian tennis player with the highest number of titles. Errani reached a career-high singles ranking of world No. 5 on 20 May 2013. She is currently a top-10 player in doubles and the coach of Jasmine Paolini.
Errani's breakthrough season occurred in 2012. At the Australian Open, she reached the quarterfinals in singles (the first time she advanced past the third round in a Grand Slam singles draw) and was a finalist in doubles. Known as a clay-court specialist, Errani won three titles on clay going into the 2012 French Open, where she reached the finals in both the singles (becoming the second Italian woman to ever reach a Grand Slam singles final, with Francesca Schiavone being the first at the 2010 French Open) and doubles tournaments, winning the doubles title with her partner Roberta Vinci. They also won the doubles titles at the 2012 US Open, and the 2013 and 2014 Australian Open. By winning the 2014 Wimbledon Women's Doubles title, Errani and Vinci became only the fifth pair in tennis history to complete a Career Grand Slam. She became the seventh player in the Open Era to achieve a Golden Slam, winning the Olympics with Jasmine Paolini. She won three times the WTA Awards as best doubles team with Vinci and once in 2024 with Paolini.
Her achievement in reaching the 2012 US Open singles semifinals leaves Wimbledon as the only Grand Slam tournament in which Errani has yet to make the quarterfinals in singles. She also made the semifinals at the 2013 French Open, the quarterfinals at the 2014 French Open, 2014 US Open, and 2015 French Open, and qualified to the WTA Finals twice in 2012 and 2013. In 2017, Errani was banned from playing for ten months due to a failed drug test. At the 2024 Summer Olympics, she was the only player along with fellow countryman Andrea Vavassori to qualify and play at the same time in singles, doubles and mixed doubles. Her partnership with Vavassori has proven successful, the pair winning four mixed doubles major titles, including in their first participations at 2024 US Open and 2025 French Open.
Errani was the year-end number-one doubles player in both 2013 and 2014. She held the top ranking for a combined total of 87 weeks, first achieved on 10 September 2012. She entered the top 10 in doubles on 11 June 2012, remaining there for 94 straight weeks.

Title: Li Xiaohui (tennis)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Li_Xiaohui_(tennis)
Summary: Li Xiaohui (Chinese: 李晓辉; pinyin: Lǐ Xiǎo Huī; born 28 September 1999) is a Chinese wheelchair tennis player. She is current world number five in singles and world number three in doubles as of March 2025. She is the champion in the wheelchair doubles at the 2025 Australian Open with her teammate Wang Ziying, they were the first all-Chinese pair to win a Grand Slam title in the wheelchair doubles.
In 2024, Li ended Diede de Groot's 145-match winning streak at the BNP Paribas World Team Cup where China won their second World Team Cup title in Antalya.