Title: Christy Hui
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christy_Hui
Summary: Christy Hui (許麗緹) is a Chinese film producer and director, who is best known as the creator of Xiaolin Showdown and its spin-off Xiaolin Chronicles. Hui also helped in launching the first pan-Asian cable satellite channel, AXN.

Title: GOOD Worldwide
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GOOD_Worldwide
Summary: GOOD Worldwide is a United States–based social impact and media company headquartered in Los Angeles. The company was founded in 2006. The company is made up of three organizations: media brands, Upworthy and GOOD, and consumer snack brand, All In.

Title: PewDiePie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PewDiePie
Summary: Felix Arvid Ulf Kjellberg (born 24 October 1989), better known as PewDiePie, is a Swedish YouTuber. Best known for his gaming videos, he is also recognised for his satirical commentary, comedy-sketches and lifestyle vlogging. Kjellberg's popularity on YouTube and extensive media coverage have made him one of the most noted online personalities and content creators. Media coverage of him has cited him as a figurehead for YouTube, especially in the gaming genre.
Born and raised in Gothenburg, Kjellberg registered his YouTube channel "PewDiePie" in 2010, primarily posting Let's Play videos of horror and action video games. His channel gained a substantial following and was one of the fastest growing channels in 2012 and 2013, before becoming the most-subscribed on YouTube on 15 August 2013. From 29 December 2014 to 14 February 2017, Kjellberg's channel was also the most-viewed on the platform. After becoming the platform's most-popular creator, he diversified his content, shifting its focus from Let's Plays and began to frequently include vlogs, comedy shorts, formatted shows, and music videos. For its first foray into original programming as part of the relaunch of its subscription service, YouTube also enlisted Kjellberg to star in a reality web series.
Kjellberg's content was already noted for its polarizing reception among general audiences online, but in the late 2010s, it became more controversial and attracted increased media scrutiny. Most notably, a 2017 article by The Wall Street Journal alleging his content included antisemitic themes and imagery prompted other outlets to write further criticism of him and companies to sever their business partnerships with Kjellberg. Though he acknowledged the content which garnered media ire as inappropriate, he defended it as humor taken out of context and vehemently rebuked the Journal's reporting in particular.
In late 2018 and early 2019, Kjellberg engaged in a public competition with Indian record label T-Series, before his channel was ultimately overtaken by the label's as the most-subscribed on YouTube. Shortly following this, he returned to making regular gaming uploads, with a focus on Minecraft, generating record viewership for his channel. In the 2020s, Kjellberg became more reserved online, uploading less consistently and taking frequent breaks from Internet use. Meanwhile, in his personal life, he moved to Japan with his wife, Italian Internet personality Marzia. He has since semi-retired from YouTube, choosing to upload less frequently and for his enjoyment rather than as a career. His content has since centered on his family life and personal interests. As of August 2026, his main YouTube channel has earned over 109 million subscribers and 29.51 billion views, which still made his channel rank as one of the most-subscribed on YouTube.
Kjellberg is widely considered a pioneer and ambassador of YouTube's platform and culture, as well as largely influential to Internet culture in general, particularly its gaming subculture. His popularity online has been recognized to boost sales for the video games he plays, especially the ones developed independently. This has allowed him to stir support for charity fundraising drives. Some media outlets have opined that Kjellberg promoted hateful ideologies or described him as adjacent to them, while others have called such descriptions unfair. Noted as YouTube's most-popular creator for much of the 2010s, Time magazine named him as one of the world's 100 most influential people in 2016.

Title: CHIP (computer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CHIP_(computer)
Summary: CHIP (stylized as C.H.I.P.) was a single-board computer crowdfunded and produced by the now-defunct Next Thing Co. (NTC). Advertised as "the world's first $9 computer," it was released in 2015 as open-source hardware running a customized, Debian-based Linux operating system.
The CHIP was designed for hobbyists and embedded hardware projects, including a 1 GHz ARMv7 processor, 512MB of RAM, onboard storage, and integrated Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. The product line later expanded to include the CHIP Pro and peripherals like the Pocket CHIP.

Title: Ridge (company)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ridge_(company)
Summary: Ridge (previously The Ridge) is a wallet and accessories manufacturer. Ridge was founded in 2013 by father and son Daniel and Paul Kane. The company initially relied on crowdfunding campaigns to finance the manufacturing of its products. The company's wallet patent has been the subject of litigation, which began in 2020.
Ridge was established in 2013 by Daniel and Paul Kane, who launched a Kickstarter campaign for Ridge Wallet as their flagship product. The campaign gained significant popularity and met its initial funding goal. The company has since expanded its product line to include rings, backpacks, and other accessories, along with new versions of its original wallet.