Title: Sakha Republic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sakha_Republic
Summary: Sakha, officially the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), is a republic of Russia, and the largest federal subject of Russia by area. It is located in the Russian Far East, along the Arctic Ocean, with a population of one million. Sakha comprises half of the area of its governing Far Eastern Federal District, and is the world's largest country subdivision, covering over 3,083,523 square kilometers (1,190,555 sq mi). Yakutsk, which is the world's coldest major city, is its capital and largest city.
The republic has a reputation for an extreme and severe climate, with the second lowest temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere being recorded in Verkhoyansk and Oymyakon (second only to Summit Camp, Greenland), and regular winter averages commonly dipping below −35 °C (−31 °F) in Yakutsk. The hypercontinental tendencies also result in warm summers for much of the republic.
Sakha was first home to hunting-gathering and reindeer-herding Tungusic and Paleosiberian peoples such as the Evenks and Yukaghir. Migrating from the area around Lake Baikal, the Turkic Sakha people first migrated to the middle Lena River sometime between the 9th and 16th centuries, likely in several waves, bringing the pastoral economic system of Inner Asia with them.
The Russians colonised and incorporated the area as the Yakutsk Oblast into the Tsardom of Russia in the early-mid 17th century, obliging the indigenous peoples of the area to pay fur tribute. While the initial period following the Russian conquest saw the Sakha population drop by 70%, the Imperial period also saw the expansion of the native Yakuts from the middle Lena along the Vilyuy River to the north and the east displacing other indigenous groups. Yakutia saw some of the last battles of the Russian Civil War, and the Bolshevik authorities reorganised Yakutsk Oblast into the autonomous Yakut ASSR in 1922. The Soviet era saw the migration of many Slavs, specifically Russians and Ukrainians, into the area.
On 27 September 1990, the area became the Yakutskaya-Sakha Soviet Socialist Republic, and on 27 December 1991, it became the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia).

Title: Yakuts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuts
Summary: The Yakuts or Sakha (Yakut: саха, saxa; plural: сахалар, saxalar) are a Turkic ethnic group native to North Siberia, primarily the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) in the Russian Federation. They also inhabit some districts of the Krasnoyarsk Krai. They speak Yakut, which belongs to the Siberian branch of the Turkic languages.

Title: Flag of the Sakha Republic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_the_Sakha_Republic
Summary: The state flag of the Sakha Republic (Yakutia) in Russia is one of the official symbols of the Sakha Republic, alongside the coat of arms and the national anthem of the Sakha Republic. The flag has four horizontal stripes. From top to bottom, the stripes are light blue (3/4 of the flag's width), white (1/16), red (1/16), and green (1/8). The flag has been used officially as the flag of the Sakha Republic since 14 October 1992.  The light blue stripe is charged with a white disc in the center.  The diameter of the disc is 2/5 of the flag's width.
In the Soviet era and prior to the 1991 declaration of the Sakha Republic within the Russian Federation was the Yakut Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic. Prior to 1937, the Yakut ASSR used a flag with a blue canton containing the depiction of the Aurora and the name of the ASSR. After 1937, the flag of the Yakut ASSR was based on the flag of the Russian SFSR, modified with inscriptions.

Title: Yakut language
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakut_language
Summary: Yakut ( yə-KOOT), also known as Sakha ( sə-KHAH) or Yakutian, is a Siberian Turkic language spoken by around 450,000 native speakers—primarily by ethnic Yakuts, but also by the Evenki, Even, Yukaghir and the Starozhily peoples. It is one of the official languages of the Sakha Republic, a republic in the Russian Federation.
The Yakut language has a large number of loanwords of Mongolic origin, a layer of vocabulary of unclear origin, as well as numerous recent borrowings from Russian. Like other Turkic languages, Yakut is an agglutinative language and features vowel harmony.

Title: Yakut nationalism
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakut_nationalism
Summary: Yakut nationalism refers to the belief that the Yakuts (or Sakha) should constitute an independent nation. Some attempts have been made to create an independent state for the Yakut people, such as the Tungus Republic, while others aimed for higher autonomy within Russia, such as the Yakut revolt.