Title: Classic Tetris World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classic_Tetris_World_Championship
Summary: The Classic Tetris World Championship (CTWC) is a video game competition series hosted by the SoCal Gaming Expo. The competition launched in 2010, during the filming of Ecstasy of Order: The Tetris Masters, to determine the world's greatest Tetris player. In its first two years, the competition was held in Los Angeles, California, but was moved to Portland, Oregon, in 2012, and was held there annually through 2023 (with the exceptions of the 2020 and 2021 tournaments, held online due to the COVID-19 pandemic). Since 2024, the tournament has been held in Pasadena, California.
The contestants play the 1989 Nintendo version of Tetris on Nintendo Entertainment System consoles and cathode-ray tube (CRT) video displays. All of the tournaments are streamed online with live-edited screens and heads-up display to improve the viewer experience.
The tournament was initially dominated by Jonas Neubauer, who reached the finals in the first nine iterations of the tournament, winning seven titles with accompanying T-shaped trophies. Following Neubauer's death in 2021, the competition's trophy has been named The Jonas Neubauer Trophy, a J-tetromino in gold for the champion and in silver for the runner-up. The trophy's backside features an engraved quote of his: "If you're a high visibility player, it's on you to move the community in a positive direction".

Title: Théo Pourchaire
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Th%C3%A9o_Pourchaire
Summary: Théo Jérôme Julien Pourchaire (French pronunciation: [te.o puʁ.ʃɛʁ]; born 20 August 2003) is a French racing driver who currently competes in the FIA World Endurance Championship for Peugeot, serves as development driver in Formula One for Mercedes and is set to compete in the 2026–27 Formula E season for Opel. He is the 2023 Formula 2 champion, and the 2020 Formula 3 runner-up.
A former member of the Sauber Academy, Pourchaire started racing in single-seaters in 2018, and came third in the French F4 Championship. The following year, he won the 2019 ADAC Formula 4 Championship for US Racing–CHRS, scrapping with Dennis Hauger to the title. Pourchaire signed with ART Grand Prix for the 2020 FIA Formula 3 Championship and ended the season as runner-up behind Oscar Piastri by three points.
ART then promoted Pourchaire to the FIA Formula 2 Championship in 2021, ranking fifth in his rookie year. He was runner-up to Felipe Drugovich in 2022, and claimed the title in 2023. In 2024, he temporarily raced in IndyCar with Arrow McLaren, initially to substitute for the injured David Malukas before being signed permanently, and then dropped in favour of Nolan Siegel. He returned to full-time racing in 2025, joining the European Le Mans Series with Algarve Pro Racing.

Title: Karting European Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karting_European_Championship
Summary: The FIA Karting European Championship, officially known as the Mondokart.com FIA Karting European Championship for sponsorship reasons, is a kart racing competition organised by the CIK-FIA. Alongside the Karting World Championship, it is one of two major karting competitions sanctioned by the FIA.
Six past European Champions have progressed to win the Formula One World Drivers' Championship: Michael Schumacher (1987, ICA), Jenson Button (1997, FSA), Lewis Hamilton (2000, FA), Sebastian Vettel (2001, ICA-J), Max Verstappen (2013, KF and KZ), and Lando Norris (2013, KF-J). Other previous champions to win FIA World Championships in auto racing include Yvan Muller (1986, FK), Sébastien Buemi (2002, ICA-J), Kévin Estre (2004, ICA), James Calado (2005, ICA), Michael Christensen (2005, ICA-J), and Nyck de Vries (2009, KF3).
In recent years, European Championship has been contested across a season, where the World Championship is hosted as a single event. As of 2024, the European Championship is held across two direct-drive and three gearbox classes. The primary direct-drive class is OK, and the primary gearbox class is KZ.

Title: The Super Mario Bros. Movie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Super_Mario_Bros._Movie
Summary: The Super Mario Bros. Movie is a 2023 American animated adventure comedy film based on Nintendo's Mario video game franchise. Directed by Aaron Horvath and Michael Jelenic and written by Matthew Fogel, the film stars an ensemble voice cast led by Chris Pratt, Anya Taylor-Joy, Charlie Day, Jack Black, Keegan-Michael Key, Seth Rogen, and Fred Armisen. It was produced by Illumination and Nintendo. The film follows brothers Mario (Pratt) and Luigi (Day), two Italian-American plumbers who get separated after being transported to another world and become entangled in a war between the Mushroom Kingdom, led by Princess Peach (Taylor-Joy), and the Dark Lands, led by the King of the Koopas, Bowser (Black).
As a result of the critical and commercial failure of the live-action film Super Mario Bros. (1993), Nintendo became reluctant to license its intellectual properties for film adaptations. Despite this, Mario creator Shigeru Miyamoto became interested in developing another film during the development of the Virtual Console service. Through Nintendo's work with Universal Parks & Resorts to create Super Nintendo World, he met with Illumination CEO Chris Meledandri. By 2016, they were discussing a Mario film and, in January 2018, Nintendo announced that they would produce it with Illumination and Universal. Production was underway by 2020, and the cast was announced in September 2021.
The Super Mario Bros. Movie premiered at Regal LA Live on April 1, 2023, and was released in the United States on April 5, by Universal Pictures. The film received mixed reviews from critics, and grossed $1.360 billion worldwide, breaking multiple box-office records, including becoming the highest-grossing film based on a video game and the first film based on a video game to reach the billion-dollar mark. It finished its theatrical run as the second-highest-grossing film of 2023, the third-highest-grossing animated film, the 15th-highest-grossing film of all time, and the highest-grossing film produced by Illumination. At the 81st Golden Globe Awards, the film received nominations for Best Animated Feature Film, Best Original Song, and Cinematic Box Office Achievement, a category introduced at the same ceremony. A sequel, The Super Mario Galaxy Movie, was released in 2026.

Title: Dries Van Langendonck
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dries_Van_Langendonck
Summary: Dries Van Langendonck (Dutch: [dris fɑn ˈlɑŋ.ə(n).dɔŋk]; born 30 August 2010), also known by his initials DVL, is a Belgian racing driver who competes in the F4 British Championship for Rodin Motorsport as part of the McLaren Driver Development Programme.
Born in Hasselt and raised in Heusden-Zolder, Van Langendonck began competitive kart racing aged eight. After a successful karting career—culminating in his victories at the junior World Championship in 2023 and European Championship in 2024—Van Langendonck graduated to junior formulae. He became the youngest race winner in British F4 history on debut in 2025, before winning the Formula Winter Series.