Title: Narendra Modi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Narendra_Modi
Summary: Narendra Damodardas Modi (born 17 September 1950) is an Indian politician who has served as the  prime minister of India since 26 May 2014. Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat from 2001 to 2014 and is the Member of Parliament (MP) for Varanasi. He is a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), a right-wing Hindutva paramilitary volunteer organisation. He is India's third-longest-serving prime minister, and the longest-serving prime minister outside the Indian National Congress.
Modi was born and raised in Vadnagar, where he completed his secondary education. He was introduced to the RSS at the age of eight, becoming a full-time worker for the organisation in Gujarat in 1971. Assigned by the RSS to the BJP in 1985, he rose through the party hierarchy and became general secretary in 1998. In 2001, Modi was appointed chief minister of Gujarat and elected to the legislative assembly soon after. His administration is considered complicit in the 2002 Gujarat violence in which over 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, were killed, with many others raped or mutilated.  An investigation authorised by the Supreme Court found no evidence to prosecute Modi. While his policies as chief minister were credited for encouraging economic growth, business and investment, his administration was criticised for failing to significantly improve health, poverty and education indices in the state.
In the 2014 Indian general election, Modi led the BJP to a parliamentary majority, the first for a party since 1984. His administration increased direct foreign investment and reduced spending on healthcare, education, and social welfare. Modi began a high-profile sanitation campaign, introduced the Goods and Services Tax, and weakened or abolished environmental and labour laws. His demonetisation of banknotes in 2016 sparked controversy. A 2019 airstrike against an alleged terrorist camp in Pakistan failed to hit targets of significance but had nationalist appeal.
After winning a second term in 2019, Modi's administration revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The same year it introduced the Citizenship Amendment Act, prompting widespread protests and spurring the 2020 Delhi riots in which Muslims were targeted by Hindu mobs. Three controversial farm laws led to widespread protests by farmers, eventually causing their repeal. Modi oversaw India's response to the COVID-19 pandemic which, according to the WHO, killed 4.7 million Indians. In the 2024 general election, the BJP lost its majority in the lower house of Parliament and formed a coalition government. In Modi's third term, a terrorist attack in Pahalgam led to a military conflict with Pakistan, which resulted in a ceasefire.
Under Modi's tenure, India has experienced democratic backsliding, or the weakening of democratic institutions, individual rights, and freedom of expression. As prime minister, he has received consistently high approval ratings. Modi has been described as engineering a political realignment towards right-wing politics. He remains a controversial figure domestically and internationally, over his Hindu nationalist beliefs and handling of the Gujarat violence, which have been cited as evidence of a majoritarian and exclusionary social agenda.

Title: Shashi Tharoor
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shashi_Tharoor
Summary: Shashi Tharoor (Malayalam pronunciation: [ʃɐʃi t̪ɐɾuːr]; born 9 March 1956) is an Indian politician, civil servant, author, public intellectual,  diplomat, and bureaucrat. A member of the Indian National Congress, he has represented Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, in the Lok Sabha since 2009. He was formerly an Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations and ran for the office of Secretary-General in 2006, coming second.

Title: Time 100
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_100
Summary: The Time 100 is a list published by the American news magazine Time of the 100 most influential people in the world. First published in 1999 as the result of a debate among American academics, politicians, and journalists, the list is now a highly publicized annual event. It is generally considered an honor to be included on the list, but, much like the magazine's Person of the Year, Time makes it clear that entrants are recognized for changing the world, regardless of the consequences of their actions. The final list of influential individuals is exclusively chosen by Time editors, with nominations coming from the Time 100 alumni and the magazine's international writing staff. Only the winner of the Reader's Poll, conducted days before the official list is revealed, is chosen by the general public. The corresponding commemorative gala is held annually in Manhattan, and has emerged as one of the world's most celebrated galas as well as high fashion events.
In 2019, Time began publishing the Time 100 Next list, which "spotlights 100 rising stars who are shaping the future of business, entertainment, sports, politics, science, health and more".

Title: Public image of Narendra Modi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_image_of_Narendra_Modi
Summary: Narendra Modi, the  prime minister of India since 2014, has elicited a number of public perceptions regarding his personality, image, background, and policies.
Modi started his public career in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), a far-right Hindutva paramilitary organisation, in the 1970s as a Pracharak (transl. propagator). He was deputed by the RSS to their political arm, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 1980s. Modi's skills at organising successful political campaigns saw him rising in the party hierarchy through the 1990s in his native state of Gujarat. He served as the  chief minister of Gujarat from 2001 to 2014. The beginning of his tenure as the chief minister saw the sectarian riots of 2002, and the subsequent visa ban by many foreign governments. His overall tenure as chief minister saw faster economic development in Gujarat relative to other Indian states. This gave him the moniker, Vikas Purush (transl. development man). Elections in India to the Lok Sabha since 2014 Indian general election have been fought with Modi at the center of the campaigns. Modi has served as the prime minister of India since 2014.
Scholars and biographers have described Modi's personality as energetic, eccentric, arrogant, and charismatic. Modi has received consistently high approval ratings during his premiership. He has consistently topped in the list of most popular leaders in surveys done in the leaders' own countries. Similarly he has received criticism for his divisive politics and misleading statements.
The BJP, for its national and regional elections in the last ten years, has used Modi as the central figure of their campaigns. Modi has used social media, government media outlets, and a careful control over his appearances, to cultivate his image.

Title: List of awards and honours received by Narendra Modi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_awards_and_honours_received_by_Narendra_Modi
Summary: This is a comprehensive list of awards, honours, and recognitions received by Narendra Modi, the 14th and current Prime Minister of India since 2014. As of 2026, Modi has received more than two dozen civilian honours from various foreign nations, making him the most internationally decorated Indian leader in history.