Title: Tea
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tea
Summary: Tea is an aromatic beverage prepared by infusion of hot or boiling fresh water with fresh or cured leaves of Camellia sinensis, an evergreen shrub native to East Asia that originated in the borderlands of southwestern China, northeast India and northern Myanmar. Tea has a stimulant effect in humans primarily due to its caffeine content.
After plain drinking water, tea is the most widely consumed beverage in the world. There are many varieties of tea according to differences in cultivars, processing and blends; some have a cooling, slightly bitter and astringent flavor, while others have taste profiles that include sweet, nutty, floral or grassy notes. 
Traditionally, tea is made by steeping loose tea leaves in hot water (usually in a teapot or teacup) for a period of time, or in the case of compressed and fermented tea, via decoction (simmering) in a kettle. Convenient preparations, such as tea bag, infuser and press as well as powdered instant tea such as matcha, konacha and chai latte, are also common. Tea is most commonly consumed as a hot beverage in a plain hot water infusion, although it can also be in mixed drink forms, such as milk tea and butter tea, sometimes sweetened with added sugar or sugar substitutes, or alternatively flavored with salt and spices. In modern times, tea can also be served as a cold beverage in the form of iced tea or in soft drink mixtures such as bubble tea.
Early credible record of tea drinking dates to the 3rd century AD, in a Chinese medical text written by Eastern Han dynasty physician Hua Tuo. Tea was consumed as a recreational and social beverage during the Tang dynasty, and Chinese tea culture-inspired ceremonial drinking spread to other Sinospheric countries such as Japan (where it is known as chado), Korea (known as darye) and Vietnam (typically as part of a wedding ritual). Tea drinking also spread into Inner Asia and South Asia via the Silk Road and the Tea Horse Road, particularly during the expansion of the Mongols, for whom the salted milk tea (süütei tsai) has remained part of the staple diet. Outside of the Far East, Portuguese priests and merchants introduced tea drinking to Europe during the 16th century. During the 17th century, drinking tea became fashionable in Western Europe as part of the rise of Chinoiserie influence, especially among the British, who had such a high import demand of tea that they later started to cultivate tea on a large scale in colonial India and Ceylon, where tea had previously been used only as a herbal medicine.

Title: Tea leaf grading
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tea_leaf_grading
Summary: Tea leaf grading is the process of evaluating tea based on the quality and condition of the tea leaves themselves.
The highest grades for Western and South Asian teas are referred to as "orange pekoe" (abbreviated as "OP"), and the lowest as "fannings" or "dust". Pekoe tea grades are classified into various qualities, each determined by how many of the adjacent young leaves (two, one, or none) were picked along with the leaf buds. Top-quality pekoe grades consist of only the leaf buds, which are picked using the balls of the fingertips. Fingernails and mechanical tools are not used, to avoid bruising. Certain grades of leaf are better suited to certain varieties of tea. For example, most white tea is processed from the buds or shoots of the tea plant.
When crushed to make bagged teas, the tea is referred to as "broken", as in "broken orange pekoe" ("BOP"). These lower grades include fannings and dust, which are tiny remnants created in the sorting and crushing processes.
The "OP" grade is also subdivided to include categories higher than OP, which are determined primarily by leaf wholeness and size; "TGFOP1" (Tippy Golden Flowery Orange Pekoe, First Grade) is an example of a higher grade of OP.
Broken, fannings and dust orthodox teas ("orthodox tea" meaning the leaves are processed only by traditional methods) have slightly different grades. CTC teas, which consist of leaves rendered to uniform fannings by machine, have yet another grading system.

Title: Kopi luwak
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kopi_luwak
Summary: Kopi luwak (Indonesian pronunciation: [ˈkopi ˈlu.aʔ]), also known as civet coffee, is a coffee that consists of partially digested coffee cherries, which have been eaten and defecated by the Asian palm civet (Paradoxurus hermaphroditus). The cherries are fermented as they pass through a civet's intestines, and after being defecated with other fecal matter, they are collected. 
Although kopi luwak is a form of processing rather than a variety of coffee, it is known as one of the most expensive coffees in the world, with retail prices reaching $100 per kilogram ($45/lb) for farmed beans and $1,300 per kilogram ($590/lb) for wild-collected beans. Another epithet for it is the "Holy Grail of coffees".

Title: Tea caddy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tea_caddy
Summary: A tea caddy is a box, jar, canister, or other receptacle used to store tea. When first introduced to Europe from Asia, tea was extremely expensive, and kept under lock and key. The containers used were often expensive and decorative, to fit in with the rest of a drawing-room or other reception room.  Hot water was carried up from the kitchen, and the tea made by the mistress of the house, or under her supervision.
The word is believed to be derived from catty, the Chinese pound, equal to about a pound and a third avoirdupois. The earliest examples that came to Europe were of Chinese porcelain, and similar in shape to the ginger-jar. They had Chinese-style lids or stoppers, and were most frequently blue and white. Until about 1800, they were called tea canisters.

At first, English manufacturers imitated the Chinese, but quickly devised forms and ornaments of their own, and most ceramic factories in the country competed for the supply of the new fashion. Earlier tea caddies were made of either porcelain or faience. Later, designs had more variety in materials and decorations. Wood, pewter, tortoiseshell, brass, copper and silver were employed, but the material most frequently used was wood, and a number of Georgian box-shaped caddies in mahogany, rosewood, satin-wood and other timbers still survive. These were often mounted in brass and delicately inlaid, with knobs of ivory, ebony or silver. Many examples were made in Holland, principally of the earthenware of Delft. There were also many English factories producing high quality caddies. Soon the Western designs were also being made in Chinese export porcelain and its Japanese equivalent.  The caddy spoon, typically in silver, was a wide shovel-like spoon for the tea, often with a scalloped bowl.
As the use of the jar waned and the box became more popular, the provision of different receptacles for green and black tea was abandoned, and the wooden tea chest or caddy, with a lid and a lock, was made with two and often three divisions for the actual caddies, the center portion being reserved for sugar. In the late 18th and early 19th century, caddies made from mahogany and rosewood were popular. The Chippendale company made caddies in the so-called Louis Quinze fashion, with claw-and-ball feet and exquisite finish. The designs of the wooden caddies were rich, the inlay simple and delicate, the form graceful and unobtrusive. Even when shaped like miniature sarcophagi, imitating the massive wine-coolers of the Empire style, with little claw feet and brass rings, they were regarded as pleasant.
The larger varieties were known as tea chests. This term was also applied to cube-shaped wooden crates used for exporting tea overseas; now, it denotes similar boxes chiefly associated with house removals.
As tea grew cheaper, there was less concern with the appearance of caddies, and as a result they fell out of use, as tea was kept in the kitchen.

Title: Wuyi tea
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wuyi_tea
Summary: Wuyi tea, also known by the trade name Bohea in English (from its Hokkien name Bú-î), is a category of black and oolong teas grown in the Wuyi Mountains of northern Fujian, China. The Wuyi region produces a number of well-known teas, including Lapsang souchong and Da Hong Pao. It has historically been one of the major centers of tea production in Fujian province and globally. Both black tea (excluding brick tea) and oolong tea were likely invented in the Wuyi region, which continues to produce both styles today.
Wuyi teas are prized because of the distinctive terroir of the mountainsides where they are grown. Because of the lower yield produced by tea bushes in such terrain, the resulting tea can be quite costly. Tea made from the leaves of older bushes is particularly expensive and limited in quantity. Da Hong Pao, collected from what are said to be the original bushes of its variety, is among the most expensive teas in the world, and more valuable by weight than gold. Commercial-grade tea grown at lower elevations in the area accounts for the majority of the Wuyi tea available on the market. Commercial Da Hong Pao is made from cuttings of the original plants.
Among Wuyi teas, certain cultivars are given the special designation “cong” (枞), a term that highlights their distinctive characteristics and lineage. The term “Famous Bush” (名枞), also known as “Single Bush” (单枞), refers to a category of oolong teas within this tradition. These teas are crafted with a distinctive style, possess a unique charm, and are of exceptional quality. Each “cong” originates from individual tea plants with singular traits, embodying the diverse potential of Wuyi tea cultivation.