Title: Economy of Nigeria
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_Nigeria
Summary: Nigeria has a lower-middle-income, mixed economy and emerging market, with expanding manufacturing, financial, service, communications, technology, and entertainment sectors. It is ranked as the 52nd-largest economy in the world in terms of nominal GDP, the second largest in Africa in terms of purchasing power parity, and the 19th-largest in terms of purchasing power parity. The country's re-emergent manufacturing sector became the largest on the continent in 2013, and it produces a large proportion of goods and services for the region of West Africa. Nigeria's debt-to-GDP ratio was 36.63% in 2021 according to the IMF.
Although oil revenues contributed 2/3 of state revenues, oil only contributes about 9% to the GDP. Nigeria produces about 2.7% of the world's oil supply. The largely subsistence agricultural sector has not kept up with the country's rapid population growth. It was once a large net exporter of food, but currently imports some of its food products. Mechanization has led to a manufacturing resurgence and food export and there was consequently a move towards food sufficiency.
In 2006, Nigeria came to an agreement with the Paris Club to buy back the bulk of its owed debts from them, in exchange for a cash payment of roughly US$12 billion. According to a report by Citigroup, published in February 2011, Nigeria had the highest projected average GDP growth in the world between 2010 and 2050. Nigeria is one of two countries from Africa among the 11 Global Growth Generators countries.

Title: Economy of Switzerland
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_Switzerland
Summary: Switzerland has a highly developed free-market economy. The Swiss economy has ranked first in the world since 2015 on the Global Innovation Index and third in the 2020 Global Competitiveness Report. According to United Nations data for 2016, it is the third richest landlocked country in the world after Liechtenstein and Luxembourg. Together with the latter and Norway, they are the only three countries in the world with a nominal GDP per capita above US$90,000 that are neither island nations nor ministates. Among OECD nations, Switzerland holds the 3rd-largest GDP per capita. Switzerland has a highly efficient and strong social security system; social expenditure stood at roughly 24.1% of GDP.

Title: Economy of Ukraine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_Ukraine
Summary: Ukraine has a developing social market economy. It possesses many of the components of a major European economy, such as rich farmlands, a well-developed industrial base, highly-trained labour, and a well-funded education system. It has large mineral deposits across its landmass. Ukraine remains one of the poorest countries in Europe, which some have attributed to high corruption levels and the slow pace of economic liberalisation and institutional reform. 
The nation was in an economic depression during the 1990s with hyperinflation and an output half of its predecessor state, the Ukrainian SSR. Economic growth returned in 2000, lasting until the 2008–2009 Ukrainian financial crisis. The country fell into another recession in 2013, with stricter border and customs control by Russia straining their exports. Its relationship with Russia has significantly influenced its economic development. The 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea and war in Donbas severely damaged two of Ukraine's most industrial regions. The Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022 suppressed economic growth by 18.9% that year, with the economy rebounding from 2023 to 2026.

Title: Zimbabwe
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zimbabwe
Summary: Zimbabwe, officially the Republic of Zimbabwe, is a landlocked country in Southeast Africa, between the Zambezi and Limpopo River, bordered by South Africa to the south, Botswana to the southwest, Zambia to the north, and Mozambique to the east. The capital and largest city is Harare, and the second largest is Bulawayo.
A country of roughly 17.3 million people per 2026 estimates, Zimbabwe's largest ethnic groups are the Northern Ndebele and Shona, who make up 95% of the population, followed by the other smaller minorities. Zimbabwe has 16 official languages, with English, Shona, and Ndebele the most common. Zimbabwe is a member of the United Nations, the Southern African Development Community, the African Union, and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa.
The region was long inhabited by the San, and was settled by Bantu peoples around 2,000 years ago. Beginning in the 11th century the Shona people constructed the city of Great Zimbabwe, which became one of the major African trade centres by the 13th century. From there, the Kingdom of Zimbabwe was established, followed by the Mutapa and Rozvi empires. The British Empire began to consolidate control of the area following the 1890 British Ultimatum against the Portuguese, who had claimed the area between Angola and Mozambique in the 1885 Pink Map. The British South Africa Company of Cecil Rhodes demarcated the Rhodesia region in 1890 when they conquered Mashonaland and later in 1893 Matabeleland after the First Matabele War. Company rule ended in 1923 with the establishment of Southern Rhodesia as a self-governing British colony. In 1965, the white minority government unilaterally declared independence as Rhodesia. The state endured international isolation and a 15-year guerrilla war with black rebel forces; this culminated in a peace agreement that established de jure sovereignty as Zimbabwe in April 1980.
Robert Mugabe became Prime Minister of Zimbabwe in 1980; he was the President of Zimbabwe from 1987, after converting the country's initial parliamentary system into a presidential one, until his resignation in 2017 following a coup. Under Mugabe's authoritarian regime, the state security apparatus dominated the country and was responsible for widespread human rights violations, which received worldwide condemnation. From 1997 to 2008, the economy experienced consistent decline (and in the latter years, hyperinflation), though it has since seen rapid growth after the use of currencies other than the Zimbabwean dollar was permitted. In 2017, in the wake of over a year of protests against his government as well as Zimbabwe's rapidly declining economy, a coup d'état resulted in Mugabe's resignation. Emmerson Mnangagwa has since served as Zimbabwe's president.

Title: Economy of India
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_India
Summary: India has a developing market-oriented economy with substantial state participation in strategic sectors. It is the world's sixth-largest economy by nominal GDP and the third-largest by purchasing power parity (PPP) as of April 2026. On a per capita income basis, the nation is ranked 149th by nominal GDP and 119th by PPP-adjusted GDP as of 2026. From independence in 1947 until 1991, economic development was characterized by protectionist economic policies, with extensive state intervention, demand-side economics, natural resource optimization, and regulation. An acute balance of payments crisis in 1991 led to the adoption of broad economic liberalisation in India and indicative planning.
Nearly 70% of India's GDP is driven by domestic consumption, with the nation consistently the world's third-largest consumer market. As of 2025, the service sector accounts for around 55% of GDP. Aside from private consumption, India's GDP is fueled by government spending, investments, and exports. As of 2025, India is the world's 7th-largest importer and the 10th-largest exporter. India is often described as the "pharmacy of the world", supplying around one-fifth of global demand for pharmaceuticals to over 200 countries. India is the largest vaccine manufacturer globally by volume, accounting for over 60% of the world's production. India is the world's fifth-largest manufacturer, representing 3.2% of global manufacturing output. India's digital economy was estimated to be 11.7% of GDP, with its total value expected to surpass US$1 trillion by 2029. Nearly 63% of India's population lives in rural areas, and generates about 46% of Indian GDP.
India has been a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) since 1995. It ranks 41st on the Global Competitiveness Index and 39th in the Global Innovation Index. As of 2025, India ranks third in the world in total number of billionaires. India's Gini coefficient fell to 25.5 by 2023, making it the fourth-most equal country globally, suggesting significant progress in income equality. Economists and social scientists often consider India a welfare state. India's overall social welfare spending stood at 8.6% of GDP in 2022. It has two of the world's ten largest stock exchanges. India has free-trade agreements with many world nations, including the European Union, and is a member of numerous economic organisations. India is a lower-middle income country with much of its modern economic development focused on improving standards of living for its population, which has been the largest in the world since the mid-2020s. The accuracy of Indian economic and inflation data has been challenged by the IMF for not suitably incorporating the informal sector and consumption.