Title: Boomerang
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boomerang
Summary: A boomerang () is a thrown tool typically constructed with airfoil sections and designed to spin about an axis perpendicular to the direction of its flight, designed to return to the thrower. The origin of the word is from an Aboriginal Australian language of the Sydney region. Its original meaning, which is preserved in official competitions, refers only to returning objects, not to throwing sticks, which were also used for hunting by various peoples both in Australia and around the world. However, the term "non-returning boomerang" is also in general use.
Various forms of boomerang-like designs were traditionally and in some cases are still used by some groups of Aboriginal Australians for hunting. The tools were known by various names in the many Aboriginal languages prior to colonisation. The oldest surviving Aboriginal boomerang, now held in the South Australian Museum, was found in a peat bog in South Australia, dated to 10,000 BC. Historically, boomerangs have been used for hunting, sport, and entertainment, and are made in various shapes and sizes to suit different purposes. Ancient "boomerangs", used for hunting, have also been discovered in Egypt, the Americas, and Europe, although it is unclear whether all or any of these were of the returning type.

Title: World Squash Championships
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Squash_Championships
Summary: The World Squash Championships are squash events, which since the early 1990s have been held annually for both men and women organised by the Professional Squash Association. The men's event was first held in 1976 in London, England and the women's was inaugurated in 1976 in Brisbane, Australia.

Title: Jahangir Khan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jahangir_Khan
Summary: Jahangir Khan PP HI NI (Pashto, Urdu: جهانګير خان born 10 December 1963) is a Pakistani former professional squash player. He won the World Open title six times, and the British Open title ten times (1982–1991). He is widely regarded as the greatest squash player of all time, and the greatest sportsman in Pakistan history. From 1981 to 1986, Khan was unbeaten and won 555 consecutive matches during that time – the longest winning streak by any athlete in top-level professional sport as recorded by Guinness World Records.
He retired as a player in 1993, and served as President of the World Squash from 2002 to 2008. Later in 2008, he became Emeritus President of the World Squash.

Title: FIFAe World Cup
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFAe_World_Cup
Summary: The FIFAe World Cup, formerly the FIFA Interactive World Cup (FIWC) and the FIFA eWorld Cup, is an esports tournament series held by FIFA. From its inception until 2023, the tournaments were held on the latest incarnation of the FIFA association football video game series. The open qualifying format for the tournament allowed millions to compete in the initial online stages, which resulted in the FIWC being recognized as the largest online esports game by Guinness World Records. Due to FIFA and EA Sports parting ways after the release of FIFA 23 and EA launching their own esports circuit known as EA Sports FC Pro for the EA Sports FC series, the FIFAe World Cup has shifted to a football-focused tournament series, with eFootball, Football Manager and Rocket League having tournaments in 2024.
The last FIFAe World Cup champion from the FIFA series was Manuel Bachoore from the Netherlands. Ichsan Taufiq from Indonesia and Minbappe from Malaysia is the current champion from the Football Manager series in console and mobile respectively, while Saudi Arabia's Team Falcons are the current champions from the Rocket League series.

Title: Kabaddi World Cup (World Kabaddi)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kabaddi_World_Cup_(World_Kabaddi)
Summary: The Kabaddi World Cup, is an indoor international kabaddi tournament conducted by the World Kabaddi. It follows the standard style (indoors on a rectangular court) and is contested by both men's and women's national teams. The format involves a round-robin tournament followed by a knockout stage.
The World Cup has been held once (in 2019) with another scheduled for 2025. Unlike its IKF counterpart, all World Cups of World Kabaddi were held outside India to globalise the event. In 2019, both the men's and women's competitions were won by the Indian teams.