Title: Dallas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dallas
Summary: Dallas is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. Located in northern Texas, it is the ninth-most populous city in the United States and third-most populous city in Texas, with a population of 1.3 million at the 2020 census. Along with the city of Fort Worth, Dallas anchors the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex, the fourth-most populous metropolitan area in the U.S. and the most populous metropolitan area in Texas, at 8.5 million people. Dallas is a core city of the largest metropolitan area in the Southern U.S. and the largest inland metropolitan area in the U.S. that lacks any navigable link to the sea. It is the seat of Dallas County, covering nearly 386 square miles (1,000 km2) and extending into Collin, Denton, Kaufman, and Rockwall counties.
Both Dallas and Fort Worth were initially developed as a product of the construction of major railroad lines through the area allowing access to cotton, cattle, and later oil in North and East Texas. The construction of the Interstate Highway System reinforced Dallas's prominence as a transportation hub, with four major interstate highways converging in the city and a fifth interstate loop around it. Dallas then developed as a strong industrial and financial center and a major inland port, due to the convergence of major railroad lines, interstate highways, and the construction of Dallas Fort Worth International Airport, one of the largest and busiest airports in the world. In addition, Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) operates rail and bus transit services throughout the city and its surrounding suburbs.
Dominant sectors of its diverse economy include defense, financial services (such as traditional banking, investment banking, private equity, and venture capital), information technology, telecommunications, and transportation. The Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex hosts 23 Fortune 500 companies, the second-most in Texas and fourth-most in the United States, and 11 of those companies are located within Dallas city limits. Over 41 colleges and universities are located within its metropolitan area, which is the most of any metropolitan area in Texas. The city has a population from a myriad of ethnic and religious backgrounds.

Title: Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dallas%E2%80%93Fort_Worth_metroplex
Summary: The Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex, officially designated the Dallas–Fort Worth–Arlington metropolitan statistical area by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget, is the most populous metropolitan statistical area in the U.S. state of Texas and the Southern U.S., encompassing 11 counties. Its historically dominant core cities are Dallas and Fort Worth. It is the economic and cultural hub of North Texas. Residents of the area also refer to it as DFW (the code for Dallas Fort Worth International Airport) or the Metroplex. The Dallas–Fort Worth–Arlington metropolitan statistical area's population was 7,637,387 according to the U.S. Census Bureau's 2020 census, making it the fourth-largest metropolitan area in the U.S. and the tenth-largest in the Americas. In 2016, the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex had the highest annual population growth in the United States.  In 2024, the U.S. Census Bureau estimated that the Dallas–Fort Worth metropolitan area's population had increased to 8,344,032. 
The metropolitan region's economy is primarily based on banking, commerce, insurance, telecommunications, technology, energy, healthcare, medical research, transportation, manufacturing, and logistics. As of 2022, Dallas–Fort Worth is home to 23 Fortune 500 companies, the fourth-largest concentration of Fortune 500 companies in the United States behind New York City (62), Chicago (35), and Houston (24). In 2016, the metropolitan economy surpassed that of Houston, the second-largest metro area in Texas, to become the fourth-largest in the U.S. The Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex boasted a GDP of just over $620.6 billion in 2020 (although both metropolitan regions have switched places multiple times since GDP began recording). If the Metroplex were a sovereign state, it would have the 22nd largest economy in the world as of 2026. In 2015, the conurbated metropolitan area would rank the ninth-largest economy if it were a U.S. state.
The Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex comprises the highest concentration of colleges and universities in Texas. The UT Southwestern Medical Center is home to six Nobel Laureates and was ranked No. 1 in the world among healthcare institutions in biomedical sciences. The Metroplex is also the second most popular metropolis for megachurches in Texas (trailing the Greater Houston metropolitan area), ranked the largest Christian metropolitan statistical area in the U.S., and has one of the largest LGBT communities in Texas since 2005.

Title: Mayor of Dallas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor_of_Dallas
Summary: The Mayor of the City of Dallas is a member of the Dallas City Council and its presiding officer. The current mayor is Eric Johnson, who has served one term since 2019 and is the 60th mayor to serve in the position. Dallas operates under a city charter that designates the mayor as the official head of city government and a council-manager system where a city council-appointed city manager serves as the chief operating officer of the city.

Title: 2019 Dallas mayoral election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019_Dallas_mayoral_election
Summary: On May 4, 2019, the city of Dallas, Texas, held an election to choose the next Mayor of Dallas. The election began as a nonpartisan blanket primary, no candidate took a majority of over 50% of the total vote so the two top vote-earners Eric Johnson and Scott Griggs advanced to a runoff election on June 8. Incumbent mayor Mike Rawlings was unable to run for reelection due to term limits. Dallas also concurrently elected all 14 members of its city council, and 3 of the 9 total members of the Dallas Independent School District. Johnson won the runoff with 55.61%.

Title: 2026 United States Senate election in Texas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_United_States_Senate_election_in_Texas
Summary: The 2026 United States Senate election in Texas will be held on November 3, 2026, to elect a member of the United States Senate to represent the state of Texas. Republican state attorney general Ken Paxton and Democratic state representative James Talarico are the nominees for their respective parties.
Four-term Republican incumbent John Cornyn sought re-election, but was challenged for the party's nomination by Paxton. After no candidate received a majority in the March 3 primary, Paxton, aided by a late endorsement from President Donald Trump, defeated Cornyn with 63.8% of the vote in a runoff on May 26. Cornyn was one of two incumbent senators to lose renomination in 2026, along with Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, and the first incumbent senator from Texas to lose renomination since 1970. In the Democratic primary, Talarico won the nomination with 52.4% of the vote over congresswoman Jasmine Crockett.
A Democrat has not won a U.S. Senate election in Texas since 1988, nor any statewide election since 1994.