Title: List of best-selling music artists
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_music_artists
Summary: The following list of best-selling music artists includes musical artists from the 20th century to the present with claims of 75 million or more record sales worldwide. The tables list artists in descending order by claimed sales; artists with equal claimed sales are ranked by certified units.
The claimed-sales and certified-unit figures include sales of albums, singles, compilation albums, and music videos as well as downloads of singles and full-length albums. Sales figures, such as those from SoundScan, which are sometimes published by Billboard, are not included in the certified-units column.

Title: Spotify
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spotify
Summary: Spotify is a Swedish freemium music streaming service provider founded in April 2006 by Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon. As of March 2026, it was one of the largest providers of music streaming services, with over 777 million monthly active users comprising 300 million paying subscribers. Spotify is listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American depositary receipts.
Spotify offers DRM-protected audio content, including over 100 million songs and over 7 million podcast titles, from record labels and media companies. Operating as a freemium service, the basic features are free with advertisements and limited control, while additional features, such as offline listening and commercial-free listening, are offered via paid subscriptions. Users can search for music based on artist, album, or genre, and can create, edit, and share playlists. It offers some social media features such as messaging, creating profiles, following friends, shared playlists, and creating listening parties called "Jams".
As of December 2022, Spotify is available in most of Europe, as well as Africa, the Americas, Asia, and Oceania, with availability in a total of 184 markets. Its users and subscribers are based largely in the United States and Europe, jointly accounting for around 53% of users and 67% of revenue. It has no presence in mainland China, where the market is dominated by QQ Music. The service is available on most devices, including Windows, macOS, and Linux computers, iOS and Android smartphones and tablets, Smart Home devices such as the Amazon Echo and Google Nest lines of products, and digital media players like Roku. As of December 2023, Spotify was the 47th most-visited website in the world with 24.78% of its traffic coming from the United States followed by Brazil with 6.51% according to data provided by Semrush. As of 2022, Spotify is the current sponsor of Spanish football club FC Barcelona, with music artists like Drake, Travis Scott, and Ed Sheeran collaborating with the club by changing their shirts into their artist logo, sometimes used for album promotions.
Unlike physical or download sales, which pay artists a fixed price per song or album sold, Spotify pays royalties based on the number of artist streams as a proportion of total songs streamed. It distributes approximately 70% of its total revenue to rights holders (often record labels), who then pay artists based on individual agreements. While certain musicians laud the service for offering a lawful option to combat piracy and for remunerating artists each time their music is played, others have voiced objections to Spotify's royalty structure and its effect on record sales.

Title: List of Spotify streaming records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Spotify_streaming_records
Summary: The following lists contain the most streamed songs and albums as well as chart records on the audio streaming platform Spotify.

Title: List of most-streamed artists on Spotify
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most-streamed_artists_on_Spotify
Summary: The following list contains the most-streamed artists on the audio streaming platform Spotify. As of April 2026, Taylor Swift is the most-streamed artist in Spotify's history. Bad Bunny is the most-streamed male artist. 
Since 2013, Spotify has published a yearly list of its most-streamed artists, which has been topped by Bad Bunny a record four times (2020–2022; 2025), being the only artist to do so in three consecutive years. Drake has topped the list three times (2015–2016; 2018), while Swift is the only female artist to have topped the list (2023–2024).

Title: Spotify Wrapped
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spotify_Wrapped
Summary: Spotify Wrapped is a year-in-review feature and viral marketing campaign hosted by Spotify every year since 2016. Typically released in late November or early December, it allows users to view a summary of their activity on the platform over the past year, which can then be shared on social media.
Spotify Wrapped typically includes the five musicians, songs, and musical genres that a Spotify user listened to the most throughout the previous year. Producers of content on the platform also have access to a version of Spotify Wrapped, which includes the number of times their content has been streamed that year. In addition to individualized data, Spotify Wrapped also includes information about activity on the Spotify platform as a whole. While Spotify Wrapped is commonly referred to as an annual collection of data, only activity from January 1st to early–mid-November is counted for any given year.
Spotify Wrapped is shared widely on social media each year and has led millions of people to promote Spotify on their social media accounts. Its release is generally accompanied by billboards and television advertisements and has historically correlated with a boost to Spotify's app store ranking. The marketing campaign has been both praised and criticized for effectively providing Spotify with free advertising and has been discussed in connection with broader questions about data and Spotify's use of it. Commentators have also analyzed the effects of Spotify Wrapped on the music industry and contrasted it with offerings by other streaming services.