Title: List of current United States governors
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_current_United_States_governors
Summary: The United States has 50 states and 5 territories that each elect a governor to serve as chief executive of the state or territorial government. The sole federal district, the District of Columbia, elects a mayor to oversee its government in a similar manner. In the event of a vacancy, the governor is succeeded by the second-highest-ranking state official; in 45 states and 4 territories, the lieutenant governor is the first in the line of succession.
As of January 2026, there are 26 states with Republican governors and 24 states with Democratic governors. The Democratic Party controls two territorial governorships, the Republican Party controls one, and one is an independent. Jenniffer González-Colón of Puerto Rico is a member of the New Progressive Party, although she is also affiliated with the Republican Party. The federal District of Columbia is governed by a Democratic mayor.
The current gubernatorial term ends and new term begins in January for most states and territories, two months after their election; in Alaska, Hawaii, North Dakota, and Kentucky, the term begins in December. Governors serve four-year terms in most states and all territories; New Hampshire and Vermont have two-year terms for their governors. Most states and all but one territory also have term limits that generally allow for two consecutive terms to be served by a candidate. To run for governor, a candidate must generally be a U.S. citizen with prior state residence who meets the minimum age requirement—set at 30 years old in 35 states.
All 55 governors are members of the National Governors Association, a non-partisan organization which represents states and territories in discussions with the federal government. Other organizations for governors include the partisan Democratic Governors Association and Republican Governors Association; and the three regional associations: Midwestern, Northeastern, and Western.

Title: J. R. West
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J._R._West
Summary: Joseph Rodman West (September 19, 1822 – October 31, 1898), also known as J. Rodman West, was a United States senator from Louisiana, a Union general in the United States Army during and after the American Civil War and the chief executive of the District of Columbia. As a commander of militia, he gave the order to torture and murder Apache chief Mangas Coloradas, who had come to meet with him under a flag of truce to discuss terms of peace.

Title: List of current United States first spouses
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_current_United_States_first_spouses
Summary: In the United States, the first spouse is the term used to refer to the spouse of a chief executive—that is, of the spouse of the president of the United States (the first lady of the United States and the first gentleman of the United States) and the spouses of the governors of the 50 U.S. states and U.S. territories (Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, and the United States Virgin Islands) and the spouse of the mayor of the District of Columbia. (The spouses of many mayors are often called the "first lady" or "first gentleman" of the city as well, and the use of the terms sometimes extends even to the spouses of college presidents).
Since 1985, the National Governors Association has encouraged state first ladies and gentlemen to pursue their own, distinct causes and public agendas. The public role of the first spouse is traditionally ceremonial. Like the first ladies of the United States, state and territorial first spouses are not elected and earn no government salary. However, traditionally first spouses also champion important causes either nationally or within their individual states or territories, such as charitable and humanitarian work. First spouses are often seen as high-profile individuals who can direct public awareness towards a particular cause or campaign. For example, the nation's first spouses launched a nationwide national breast cancer awareness campaign in conjunction with the National Governors Association in 1994. In collaboration with the breast cancer initiative, some first spouses participated in media campaigns, public relations, chaired statewide breast cancer awareness committees, and even spearheaded the creation of a specific women's departments within state health departments. Diverse initiatives championed by individual current first spouses have included advocacy against drunk driving, heart disease in women, the Special Olympics, and development assistance projects in Rwanda.
Most first spouses have pursued their own careers before entering the public arena when their husbands or wives assumed the governor's mansion. For example, Lou Rell, former first gentleman of Connecticut, is a former naval pilot and commercial airline pilot with TWA.
Three states, Alabama, Maine and Massachusetts along with the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, do not have a first lady or first gentleman.

Title: Zohran Mamdani
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zohran_Mamdani
Summary: Zohran Kwame Mamdani (born October 18, 1991) is an American politician who has served since 2026 as the 112th mayor of New York City. A member of the Democratic Party and the Democratic Socialists of America, he represented the 36th district in the New York State Assembly from 2021 to 2025. Mamdani is New York City's first Muslim and first Asian American mayor.
Born in Kampala, Uganda, to parents of Indian descent, Mamdani moved to New York City at seven years old and graduated from Bowdoin College in 2014 with a bachelor's degree in Africana studies. After graduation, he worked as a housing counselor and rapper, and entered New York City politics as a campaign manager for Khader El-Yateem and Ross Barkan. He was first elected to the New York State Assembly in 2020, defeating five-term incumbent Aravella Simotas in the Democratic primary. Representing Astoria and Long Island City, he was reelected without opposition in 2022 and 2024.
In October 2024, Mamdani announced his candidacy for mayor of New York City in the 2025 mayoral election. A democratic socialist, Mamdani campaigned on a progressive, affordability-focused platform, supporting fare-free city buses, universal child care, city-owned grocery stores, a rent freeze on rent-stabilized units, additional affordable housing units, and a $30 minimum wage by 2030. He also expressed support for LGBTQ rights, comprehensive public safety reform, and tax increases on corporations and those earning above $1 million annually. He won the Democratic primary in June 2025, defeating former governor Andrew Cuomo in an upset, and was elected mayor in the November general election.

Title: Katie Wilson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Katie_Wilson
Summary: Katherine Barrett Wilson (born July 12, 1982) is an American politician and activist serving as the 58th mayor of Seattle since 2026. She is the co-founder and executive director of the Transit Riders Union, a group that focuses on improving public transportation and workers' rights. 
Wilson, a democratic socialist, was elected mayor of Seattle in 2025, narrowly defeating incumbent mayor Bruce Harrell.