Title: Noma (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noma_(restaurant)
Summary: Noma () is a restaurant and food innovation lab founded by chef René Redzepi and Claus Meyer in Copenhagen, Denmark. The name is a syllabic abbreviation of the two Danish words "nordisk" (Nordic) and "mad" (food). Opened in 2003, the restaurant is known for its focus on foraging, invention and interpretation of New Nordic Cuisine. In 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, and 2021 it was ranked as the Best Restaurant in the World by Restaurant magazine. 
In January 2023, Redzepi announced that Noma would transition away from traditional restaurant service, with its final regular dinner service taking place in Kyoto, Japan, in December 2024. Noma continues to operate as a food lab and through periodic pop-up residencies.

Title: René Redzepi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ren%C3%A9_Redzepi
Summary: René Redzepi is a Danish chef and co-founder of Noma, a former three-Michelin-star restaurant in Copenhagen that was ranked five times as the Best Restaurant in the World. In January 2023, Redzepi announced that Noma would move away from traditional restaurant service; the restaurant's final regular service took place in Kyoto, Japan, in December 2024. Redzepi is noted for his efforts to reinvent and refine New Nordic cuisine. In 2024, the TV series Omnivore, which Redzepi created and in which he starred, was released on Apple TV+. In 2026, he stepped down from his leadership role at Noma after allegations of abuse emerged.

Title: Michael O'Hare (chef)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_O%27Hare_(chef)
Summary: Michael O'Hare (born June 1981) is a British chef from Middlesbrough, England. He was chef-patron at The Man Behind The Curtain in Leeds, which was awarded a Michelin star in October 2015. He also ran The Rabbit in the Moon at the National Football Museum in Manchester. He is now chef-patron of In Lamentation in Boston Spa.
O'Hare began cooking whilst at university before becoming a professional chef, gaining experience at various restaurants including John Burton-Race at The Landmark and Noma.

Title: Tomorrow (The Bear)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomorrow_(The_Bear)
Summary: "Tomorrow" is the first episode of the third season of the American comedy-drama television series The Bear. It is the 19th overall episode of the series and was written by series creator Christopher Storer from a story he co-wrote with cast member Matty Matheson, and directed by Storer. It was released on Hulu on June 26, 2024, along with the rest of the season.
The series follows Carmen "Carmy" Berzatto, an award-winning chef de cuisine, who returns to his hometown of Chicago to run his late brother Michael's failing Italian beef sandwich shop and revamps the shop into a fine dining establishment, the Bear. In the episode, Carmy reminisces over his past experiences in other restaurants as he tries to move forward with the newly open River North place. The episode has scant dialogue; most of the spoken lines are fragments of memory, only a handful taking place in the contemporary timeline.
Jeremy Allen White was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for his performance in this episode.

Title: List of The Bear characters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_The_Bear_characters
Summary: The characters of the FX Networks television series The Bear, an American family dramedy television program launched in 2022, are predominantly people who work with the Berzattos at family businesses including a semi-seedy Italian beef sandwich shop, the Original Beef of Chicagoland. The Beef is later transformed into a high-end dinner destination (with a window on the side, for sandwiches) known as the Bear. The series is set in Chicago, Illinois, United States.