Title: Pulitzer Prize for Fiction
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulitzer_Prize_for_Fiction
Summary: The Pulitzer Prize for Fiction is one of the twenty-three American Pulitzer Prizes that are annually awarded for Letters, Drama, and Music. It recognizes distinguished fiction by an American author, preferably dealing with American life, published during the preceding calendar year. 
As the Pulitzer Prize for the Novel (awarded 1918–1947), it was one of the original Pulitzers; the program was inaugurated in 1917 with seven prizes, four of which were awarded that year (no Novel prize was awarded in 1917, the first one having been granted in 1918).
The name was changed to the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1948 and eligibility was expanded to the broader "distinguished fiction published in book form". The Advisory Board wanted to give the award to James A. Michener's Tales of the South Pacific, which required expanding the category criteria and lifting the ban on short stories.
Finalists have been announced since 1980, usually a total of three.

Title: Pulitzer Prize for History
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulitzer_Prize_for_History
Summary: The Pulitzer Prize for History, administered by Columbia University, is one of the seven American Pulitzer Prizes that are annually awarded for Letters, Drama, and Music. It has been presented since 1917 for a distinguished book about the history of the United States. Thus it is one of the original Pulitzers, for the program was inaugurated in 1917 with seven prizes, four of which were awarded that year. The Pulitzer Prize program has also recognized some historical work with its Biography prize, from 1917, and its General Nonfiction prize, from 1962.
Finalists have been announced since 1980, ordinarily two others beside the winner.

Title: List of winners and nominated authors of the Booker Prize
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_winners_and_nominated_authors_of_the_Booker_Prize
Summary: The following is a list of winners and shortlisted authors of the Booker Prize for Fiction. The prize has been awarded each year since 1969 to the best original full-length novel, written in the English language, by a citizen of the Commonwealth of Nations or the Republic of Ireland. In 2014, it was opened for the first time to any work published in the United Kingdom and written in (not translated into) the English language.
There have been three special awards celebrating the Booker's history. In 1993, the "Booker of Bookers" prize was awarded to Salman Rushdie for Midnight's Children (the 1981 winner) as the best novel to win the award in its first 25 years. Midnight's Children also won a public vote in 2008, on the prize's fortieth anniversary, for "The Best of the Booker". In 2018 a special "Golden Booker" was awarded celebrating 50 years of the award; this was won by Michael Ondaatje for The English Patient.

Title: Pulitzer Prize for Music
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulitzer_Prize_for_Music
Summary: The Pulitzer Prize for Music is one of seven Pulitzer Prizes awarded annually in Letters, Drama, and Music. It was first given in 1943. Joseph Pulitzer arranged for a music scholarship to be awarded each year, and this was eventually converted into a prize: "For a distinguished musical composition of significant dimension by an American that has had its first performance in the United States during the year."
Because of the requirement that the composition have its world premiere during the year of its award, the winning work had rarely been recorded and sometimes had received only one performance. In 2004, the terms were modified to read: "For a distinguished musical composition by an American that has had its first performance or recording in the United States during the year."

Title: Pulitzer Prize for Biography
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulitzer_Prize_for_Biography
Summary: The Pulitzer Prize for Biography is one of the seven American Pulitzer Prizes annually awarded for Letters, Drama, and Music. The award honors "a distinguished and appropriately documented biography by an American author." Award winners receive US$15,000.
From 1917 to 2022, this prize was known as the Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography and was awarded to a distinguished biography, autobiography or memoir by an American author or co-authors, published during the preceding calendar year. It is one of the original Pulitzers. The program was inaugurated in 1917 with seven prizes, four of which were awarded that year.