Title: 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024
Summary: 2024 (MMXXIV) was a leap year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar, the 2024th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 24th  year of the 3rd millennium and the 21st century, and the  5th   year of the 2020s decade.  
The year saw the continuation of major armed conflicts, including the Russo-Ukrainian war, the Myanmar civil war, the Sudanese civil war, and the Islamist insurgency in the Sahel. The Gaza war led to widespread protests and spillover conflicts into numerous other countries, most notably Lebanon, which was invaded by Israel in October. This followed an intensification of the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hezbollah. In September, Israel escalated an offensive against the group, which resulted in the killing of the Secretary-General, Hassan Nasrallah. Ismail Haniyeh, the political leader of Hamas, had also been assassinated in Iranian capital Tehran in July, and his successor Yahya Sinwar was killed by the Israel Defense Forces in October. In November, heavy fighting resumed in the Syrian civil war, leading to the toppling of Ba'athist Syria, with Bashar al-Assad fleeing Syria in December. The year also saw a rise in activity by the Houthi movement which contributed to a crisis in the Red Sea that impacted global shipping.
Approximately 80 countries, representing around 4 billion people, conducted national elections throughout the course of the year, including eight out of the ten most populous countries (Bangladesh, Brazil, Pakistan, Russia, India, Mexico, Indonesia, and the United States) as well as France, the United Kingdom, and Japan. The European Parliament also held elections. Among democracies, over 80% saw the incumbent party lose support compared to the last election, including many significant losses. In countries like Japan, Botswana, and South Africa, incumbent parties that had dominated domestic politics for decades lost their majorities and either relinquished power or are holding on through coalitions with minor parties. Bassirou Diomaye Faye won the 2024 Senegalese presidential election, becoming the first opposition candidate to win in the first round since the country's independence. In Sri Lanka, voters delivered a landslide victory to the National People's Power, previously a minor party. On November 5, 2024, Republican politician Donald Trump won the 2024 United States presidential election, becoming the first U.S. president to be elected to a nonconsecutive second term since 1892. The French and German governments lost votes of no confidence. In December, South Korean president Yoon Suk Yeol's attempt to declare and impose martial law was thwarted by members of parliament, sparking a political crisis that led to his impeachment.

Title: Indian Americans
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indian_Americans
Summary: Indian Americans are Americans whose ancestry originates wholly or partly from India. The terms Asian Indian and East Indian are used to avoid confusion with Native Americans in the United States, who are also referred to as "Indians" or "American Indians". With a population of more than 6 million (6,079,221) according to the Indian Ministry of External Affairs, Indian Americans are the largest group of South Asian Americans, the largest Asian-alone group, and the second-largest group of Asian Americans after Chinese Americans. The United States hosts the largest Indian diaspora by population, though not by percentage.
The Indian American population started increasing, especially  after the 1980s, with U.S. migration policies that attracted highly skilled and educated Indian immigrants. Indian Americans have the highest median household income and the second highest per capita income (after Taiwanese Americans) among other ethnic groups working in the United States. "Indian" does not refer to a single ethnic group, but is used as an umbrella term for the various ethnic groups in India.

Title: List of elections in 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_elections_in_2024
Summary: This is a list of elections that were held in 2024. The National Democratic Institute also maintains a calendar of elections around the world.

2024 United Nations Security Council election
2024 national electoral calendar
2024 local electoral calendar
The year 2024 is notable for the large number of elections that were held worldwide: 64 countries from around the world, home to nearly half of the global population, voted, including eight of the world's 10 most populous nations – Bangladesh, Brazil, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Pakistan, Russia, and the United States; in addition, the European Union held elections for the European Parliament in June. Around 4 billion voters – approximately half of the world's population – were eligible to vote in elections that year.
2024 has been called the year of elections. This year had a big impact on global politics.
Almost every incumbent party worldwide facing election in 2024 lost vote share, including in South Africa, India, France, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Japan, though they did not necessarily lose power. Among democracies, over 80 percent saw the incumbent party lose support compared to the last election. This is the first time this has ever happened since 1905 (when data was first recorded) and the first time in the history of democracy, as universal suffrage began in 1894.

Title: 2024 in politics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_in_politics
Summary: These are some of the notable events relating to politics in 2024. 
In 2024, approximately 80 countries, representing nearly half of the global population, voted on national governments and legislatures. Various sources have called 2024 the "year of democracy".

Title: Foreign policy of the second Trump administration
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_policy_of_the_second_Trump_administration
Summary: The foreign policy of the second Trump administration is an example of a realist "America First"  foreign policy. It has been described as imperialist, expansionist, and interventionist in respect to the Americas and Middle East, but also isolationist in respect to Europe and Africa. Trump has used the expansive version of the Monroe Doctrine, that Donald Trump himself called the "Donroe Doctrine." His foreign policy has been compared to the policy of former president William McKinley. Trump's deputy chief of staff, Stephen Miller, explained their policy saying: "We're a superpower. And under President Trump, we are going to conduct ourselves as a superpower."
The foreign policy of the Trump administration has been described as breaking the post-1945 rules-based liberal international order and as an abandonment of multilateralism. It involved dismantling or withdrawing support for both domestic and international institutions working to strengthen the American soft power, and favoring instead hard power. The moves were described as undermining American global leadership and creating a power vacuum for Russia and China. Trump's relations with U.S. allies have been transactional and spanned from indifference to animosity, while he has sought friendly relationships with some U.S. adversaries. The actions saw large drops in global public opinion of the US.
Trump initiated trade wars with Canada and Mexico continued the ongoing trade war with China. He has repeatedly expressed his wish to annex Canada, Greenland, and the Panama Canal. He has taken a pro-Israel stance and increased support for Israel in the Gaza war. In response to the Gaza war, he proposed taking over the Gaza Strip, forcibly relocating its people to other Arab countries such as Jordan and Egypt, and turning it into a special economic zone. In Latin America, Trump authorized a series of strikes on alleged drug traffickers, the legality of which is widely disputed under both U.S. and international law, and subsequently ordered a military operation to capture Nicolás Maduro, the disputed president of Venezuela. Following the raid, Venezuela has been described as a de facto puppet state of the U.S. In 2026, he launched a major war on Iran with Israel with the stated goal of regime change which lead to the assassination of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei. Trump has sought realignment with Russian president Vladimir Putin, a longtime US adversary. To end the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Trump's administration offered concessions to Russia; it also said that Ukraine was partly responsible for the invasion. These moves have been criticized by most US allies and by many international institutions.