Montréal–Trudeau International Airport (IATA: YUL, ICAO: CYUL) (French: Aéroport International Montréal-Trudeau) or Montréal–Trudeau, formerly known and still commonly referred to as Montréal–Dorval International Airport (Aéroport international Montréal-Dorval), is an international airport straddling the border of Dorval and Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It is the only Transport Canada designated international airport serving Montreal and is situated 15 km (9.3 mi) west of Downtown Montreal. The airport terminals are located entirely in the suburb of Dorval, while one runway is located in the Montreal borough of Saint-Laurent. Air Canada, the country's flag carrier, also has its corporate headquarters complex on the Saint-Laurent side of the airport. It also serves Greater Montreal and adjacent regions in Quebec and eastern Ontario, as well as the states of Vermont and northern New York in the United States. The airport is named in honour of Pierre Trudeau (1919–2000), the 15th Prime Minister of Canada.
The airport is one of two managed and operated by Aéroports de Montréal (ADM), a not-for-profit corporation without share capital; the other is Montréal–Mirabel northwest of Montreal, which was initially intended to replace the one in Dorval but now deals almost solely with cargo and private flights. Montréal–Trudeau is owned by Transport Canada which has a 60-year lease with Aéroports de Montréal, as per Canada's National Airport Policy of 1994.
Trudeau is the busiest airport in the province of Quebec and the third-busiest airport in Canada by passenger traffic, with 22.4 million passengers in 2025. It is one of nine Canadian airports with United States border preclearance and is one of the main gateways into Canada with 15.79 million or 71% of its passengers being on non-domestic flights, the highest proportion amongst Canada's airports. YUL has also risen to become the 5th busiest transatlantic hub in North America. The route between Montreal and Paris is Canada's busiest international route and the 6th busiest international route from North America, with more than 1.5 million passengers a year. It is one of three Air Canada hubs and, in that capacity, serves mainly Quebec, the Atlantic Provinces and Eastern Ontario. On an average day, 58,000 passengers transit through Montréal-Trudeau.
Airlines servicing Trudeau offer year-round non-stop flights to five continents, namely Africa, Asia, Europe, North and South America. It is one of only two airports in Canada with non-stop flights to five continents, the other being Toronto Pearson International Airport. Trudeau airport is the headquarters of and a large hub for Air Canada, the country's largest airline. It is also the headquarters of Air Inuit and Air Transat, and an operation base for Porter Airlines. It also plays a role in general aviation as home to the headquarters of Innotech-Execair, Starlink, ACASS and Maintenance Repair & Overhaul (MRO) facilities of Air Transat and Air Inuit. Transport Canada operates a Civil Aviation Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul facility on site, with a fleet of Government owned and operated civil aircraft. Bombardier Aerospace has an assembly facility on site where they build Global and Challenger business jets.


== History ==


=== Growth ===

In November 1960, the airport was renamed Montreal–Dorval International Airport/Aéroport international Dorval de Montréal. On December 15 of that year the Minister of Transport inaugurated a new $30 million terminal. The structure was built by Illsley, Templeton, Archibald, and Larose. At its height, it was the largest terminal in Canada and one of the biggest in the world. It was the gateway to Canada for all European air traffic and served more than two million passengers per year. Eight years later, Montréal–Dorval International Airport underwent a major expansion program. Despite this, the government of Prime Minister of Canada Pierre Elliott Trudeau (who represented a Montreal riding) predicted that Dorval would be completely saturated by 1985 and also projected that 20 million passengers would be passing through Montreal's airports annually. They decided to construct a new airport in Sainte-Scholastique, what became Montréal–Mirabel International Airport. As the first phase in the transition that would eventually have seen Dorval closed, all international flights (except those to and from the United States) were to be transferred to the new airport in 1975.


=== The opening and closing of Mirabel Airport ===

The Trudeau government had developed Mirabel Airport to handle an expected growth in international traffic and eventually, to replace Dorval. On November 29, 1975, Mirabel International Airport went into service. With an operations zone of 70 km2 (27 sq mi) and a buffer zone of 290 km2 (110 sq mi), it became the largest airport in the world. Many connecting flights to Canadian centres were transferred to Mirabel and 23 international airlines moved their overseas activities there. As a consequence, Montréal–Dorval was repurposed to serve domestic flights and transborder flights to the United States, to eventually shift these activities to Mirabel in the future and lead to Dorval's closure for redevelopment.
However, the extra traffic never materialized. Mirabel's traffic decreased due to the advent in the 1980s of longer-range jets that did not need to refuel in Montreal before crossing the Atlantic Ocean from the major Western North American cities. Montreal's economic decline in the late 1970s and 1980s also had a significant effect on both airports' traffic, which made Mirabel's additional capacity redundant. Although this redundancy would have been resolved if Dorval was decommissioned as originally intended, public pressure supported Dorval's continued operation due to its closer proximity to downtown Montreal at 20 km (12 mi) instead of 58 km (36 mi) for Mirabel. Another obstacle of the planned transfer from Dorval to Mirabel was Air Canada's desir