Title: Frankfurt Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frankfurt_Airport
Summary: Frankfurt Airport (German: Flughafen Frankfurt Main [ˈfluːkhaːfn̩ ˈfʁaŋkfʊʁt ˈmaɪn]; IATA: FRA, ICAO: EDDF) is Germany's busiest international airport by passenger numbers, located in Frankfurt, Germany's fifth-largest city. Its official name according to the German Aeronautical Information Publication is Frankfurt Main Airport. The airport is operated by Fraport and serves as the main hub for Lufthansa, including Lufthansa City Airlines, Lufthansa CityLine, Discover Airlines  and Lufthansa Cargo as well as Condor and AeroLogic. It covers an area of 2,300 hectares (5,683 acres) of land and features three passenger terminals with capacity for approximately 65 million passengers per year; four runways; and extensive logistics and maintenance facilities.
Frankfurt Airport is the busiest airport by passenger traffic in Germany as well as the 6th busiest in Europe after London–Heathrow, Istanbul, Paris–Charles de Gaulle, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and Adolfo Suárez Madrid–Barajas Airport. The airport is also the 22nd busiest worldwide by total number of passengers in 2024, with 61,564,957 passengers using the airport in 2024. It also had a freight throughput of 2.076 million tonnes in 2015 and is the busiest airport in Europe by cargo traffic. As of 2022, Frankfurt Airport serves 330 destinations on five continents, making it the airport with the most direct routes in the world.
The southern side of the airport ground was home to the Rhein-Main Air Base, which served as a major air base for the United States from 1947 until its closure on 31 December 2005. The US personnel moved to Ramstein Air Base (extended from 2004 to 2006). The property was acquired by Fraport and the site now occupied by the airport's Terminal 3.

Title: Montréal–Trudeau International Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Montr%C3%A9al%E2%80%93Trudeau_International_Airport
Summary: Montréal–Trudeau International Airport (IATA: YUL, ICAO: CYUL) (French: Aéroport International Montréal-Trudeau) or Montréal–Trudeau, formerly known and still commonly referred to as Montréal–Dorval International Airport (Aéroport international Montréal-Dorval), is an international airport straddling the border of Dorval and Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It is the only Transport Canada designated international airport serving Montreal and is situated 15 km (9.3 mi) west of Downtown Montreal. The airport terminals are located entirely in the suburb of Dorval, while one runway is located in the Montreal borough of Saint-Laurent. Air Canada, the country's flag carrier, also has its corporate headquarters complex on the Saint-Laurent side of the airport. It also serves Greater Montreal and adjacent regions in Quebec and eastern Ontario, as well as the states of Vermont and northern New York in the United States. The airport is named in honour of Pierre Trudeau (1919–2000), the 15th Prime Minister of Canada.
The airport is one of two managed and operated by Aéroports de Montréal (ADM), a not-for-profit corporation without share capital; the other is Montréal–Mirabel northwest of Montreal, which was initially intended to replace the one in Dorval but now deals almost solely with cargo and private flights. Montréal–Trudeau is owned by Transport Canada which has a 60-year lease with Aéroports de Montréal, as per Canada's National Airport Policy of 1994.
Trudeau is the busiest airport in the province of Quebec and the third-busiest airport in Canada by passenger traffic, with 22.4 million passengers in 2025. It is one of nine Canadian airports with United States border preclearance and is one of the main gateways into Canada with 15.79 million or 71% of its passengers being on non-domestic flights, the highest proportion amongst Canada's airports. YUL has also risen to become the 5th busiest transatlantic hub in North America. The route between Montreal and Paris is Canada's busiest international route and the 6th busiest international route from North America, with more than 1.5 million passengers a year. It is one of three Air Canada hubs and, in that capacity, serves mainly Quebec, the Atlantic Provinces and Eastern Ontario. On an average day, 58,000 passengers transit through Montréal-Trudeau.
Airlines servicing Trudeau offer year-round non-stop flights to five continents, namely Africa, Asia, Europe, North and South America. It is one of only two airports in Canada with non-stop flights to five continents, the other being Toronto Pearson International Airport. Trudeau airport is the headquarters of and a large hub for Air Canada, the country's largest airline. It is also the headquarters of Air Inuit and Air Transat, and an operation base for Porter Airlines. It also plays a role in general aviation as home to the headquarters of Innotech-Execair, Starlink, ACASS and Maintenance Repair & Overhaul (MRO) facilities of Air Transat and Air Inuit. Transport Canada operates a Civil Aviation Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul facility on site, with a fleet of Government owned and operated civil aircraft. Bombardier Aerospace has an assembly facility on site where they build Global and Challenger business jets.

Title: Montréal–Mirabel International Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Montr%C3%A9al%E2%80%93Mirabel_International_Airport
Summary: Montréal–Mirabel International Airport (IATA: YMX, ICAO: CYMX), originally called Montréal International Airport, widely known as Mirabel and branded as YMX International Aerocity of Mirabel, is a cargo and former international passenger airport in Mirabel, Quebec, Canada, 21 nautical miles (39 km; 24 mi) northwest of Montreal. It opened on October 4, 1975, and the last commercial passenger flight took off on October 31, 2004.
The airport is mainly used for cargo flights, but it is also home to medevac and general aviation flights, and hosts a manufacturing plant for Airbus, where final assembly of the Airbus A220 (formerly Bombardier CSeries) is conducted. Bombardier Aviation produced the Bombardier CRJ700 series of regional jets at the factory until early 2021. The former passenger terminal apron is now a racing course, and the terminal building was demolished in 2016.
Prior to the demolition of the passenger terminal, Montréal–Mirabel International Airport was classified as an airport of entry (AOE) by Nav Canada and was staffed by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA). A smaller AOE for general aviation with no more than 15 people on board is still available from Hélibellule, Nolinor, and Mirajet. In addition it is one of ten Canadian airport classified as an airport of entry for cargo flights. It is part of the National Airports System and it was one of two airports in Canada with sufficient right-of-way that can be expanded to accommodate 50 million passengers per year, the other being Toronto Pearson International Airport. A lack of traffic meant that Mirabel was never expanded beyond its first phase. As a result of a controversial land expropriation, Mirabel would have been the largest airport in the world by surface area, with a planned area spanning a property totaling 39,660 hectares (396.6 km2; 98,000 acres). In 1989, 32,780 hectares (81,000 acres) of that were deeded back to their original owners.
The airport was intended to replace the existing Dorval Airport as the eastern air gateway to Canada. Accordingly, from 1975 to 1997, all international flights to and from Montreal (except for flights to and from the United States) were required to use Mirabel. Mirabel's distant location, its inadequate transport links to urban centres, and the continued operation of domestic flights from Dorval Airport made Mirabel very unpopular with travellers and airlines. It did not help that Montreal's economy declined relative to that of Toronto during the 1970s and 1980s, while newer long-range airliners no longer needed to refuel in Montreal prior to trans-Atlantic flights, so passenger levels never approached the levels that had been anticipated. The original plan to eventually close Dorval was discarded, and Mirabel thus turned out to be a white elephant.
A decision was made to consolidate Montreal's passenger traffic at Dorval, with scheduled flights and charter flights being shifted in 1997 and 2004, so Mirabel was relegated to the role of a cargo airport. In 2004, Dorval Airport was renamed Montréal–Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport, after the Canadian prime minister whose government initiated the Mirabel project, the aim of which was to close and replace the Dorval airport. During the 2000s, Dorval was renovated and expanded, which enabled it to handle the passenger levels that the Trudeau government initially claimed would require two airports. Between 2008 and 2018, Mirabel's air traffic more than tripled due to the use of private passenger flights, helicopter flights and flight schools, leading to Aéroports de Montréal renaming the airport to YMX International Aerocity of Mirabel to emphasize it as a business facility.

Title: Aéroports de Montréal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A%C3%A9roports_de_Montr%C3%A9al
Summary: ADM Aéroports de Montréal, often abbreviated ADM, is the main airport authority in the Greater Montreal area. It is headquartered in Suite 1000 of the Leigh-Capreol Place in Dorval, Quebec. It is responsible for both Montréal–Trudeau International Airport and Montréal–Mirabel International Airport. It is a non-profit private enterprise that neither issues share capital nor receive government funding. Its missions are to provide quality airport service for the Montréal region, support its economic development, and develop a harmonious coexistence with the surrounding environment.

Title: Dulles International Airport Main Terminal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dulles_International_Airport_Main_Terminal
Summary: The Dulles International Airport Main Terminal is located in Loudoun and Fairfax counties in Dulles, Virginia, United States. The original structure, 600 feet (180 m) long and 150 feet (46 m) wide, was designed by Eero Saarinen and completed in 1962 as the first terminal at Dulles International Airport. Annexes to the west and east were completed in 1996 as part of a renovation designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill (SOM), bringing its total length to 1,240 feet (380 m). The terminal is operated by the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, which operates Dulles Airport as a whole. The terminal's design is a suspended structure with roof panels of precast concrete suspended between cables which span the width of the building.
The Main Terminal's design includes parallel slanted colonnades on the terminal's north and south facades, interspersed with glass walls. The landside facade to the north is taller than the airside facade to the south; a concave roof supported by cables connects the two facades, descending toward the center. A concourse and control tower extend south toward the airport's apron. The interior was originally divided into two levels: an upper story for departing passengers and a lower story for arriving passengers. Saarinen's original design included mobile lounges that ferried passengers directly to planes, reducing the need for long walks or taxiing while increasing the airport's operational flexibility. The modern terminal includes four airline gates known as Z gates, where aircraft could unload passengers directly. In addition, two basements contain security screening facilities and an AeroTrain people-mover station.
The 1950 Washington Airport Act provided funding for Dulles Airport, land for which was acquired in January 1958. Saarinen was selected that May to design the terminal, construction of which began in early 1960. After several delays, the terminal was dedicated on November 17, 1962, along with the rest of the airport. Initially, Dulles Airport saw lower-than-expected usage, but increased patronage prompted the airport's original operator, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), to contemplate an expansion in the early 1970s. Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum (HOK) built two small annexes to the south in 1978, and further expansions and additional terminals were contemplated in the 1980s following increases in patronage. SOM designed annexes to the west and east, which began construction in October 1993 and were dedicated on September 6, 1996. Additional expansions took place in the 2000s, including the Z gates and the basements.
The structure was widely acclaimed when it was completed, particularly regarding its shape; Saarinen reportedly considered it his best work. The terminal has received numerous awards, including the American Institute of Architects' Twenty-five Year Award, and other terminal buildings have been compared with it. Though the Main Terminal was deemed eligible for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places in March 1978, it has not been added as of 2026.