Title: Nairobi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nairobi
Summary: Nairobi (  ny-ROH-bee) (Jiji kuu la Nairobi, in Swahili),  is the capital and largest city of Kenya, located in the south-central part of the country. As of 2026, it has a population of 5.6 million and a metropolitan population of 15.95 million, making it the 8th most populous city in Africa and the 4th most populous metropolitan area. The city goes beyond its borders and has expanded into neighbouring counties, making it the 4th largest metropolitan area in Africa.
Nicknamed the "Green City under the Sun", Nairobi is uniquely notable for being the only capital city in the world that hosts a national park within its boundaries. Its name originates from the Maasai phrase Enkare Nyirobi, meaning "place of cool waters".
As the national capital, Nairobi is home to the Kenyan Parliament Buildings, the State House and the Supreme Court Building. It is the major financial and economic hub of East Africa, hosting thousands of Kenyan businesses and international companies and organisations, including the United Nations Environment Programme (UN Environment) and the United Nations Office at Nairobi (UNON). The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) is one of the largest stock exchanges in Africa and the second-oldest exchange on the continent. It is Africa's fourth-largest stock exchange by trading volume, capable of processing 10 million trades a day. Nairobi is considered a global city and was ranked as a "Beta World City" by the Globalisation and World Cities Research Network as of 2024.
Nairobi was founded in 1898 by colonial authorities in British East Africa, as a rail depot on the Uganda–Kenya Railway. The authorities favoured it as an ideal resting place due to its high elevation, temperate climate, and adequate water supply. The town quickly grew to replace Mombasa as the capital of Kenya in 1907.
After independence in 1963, Nairobi became the capital of the Republic of Kenya. During Kenya's early period, the city became a centre for the coffee, tea and sisal industries. Successive post-independence governments have built and turned Nairobi into a modern metropolitan city with a diverse population and a growing economy.

Title: List of waterfalls
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_waterfalls
Summary: This list of notable waterfalls of the world is sorted by continent, then country, then province, state or territory. A waterfall is included if it is at least 15 m (50 ft) tall, or it is considered significant.
There is no standard way to measure the height or width of a waterfall. No ranking of waterfalls should be assumed because of the heights or widths provided in the list. Many numbers are estimated and measurements may be imprecise. See additional lists of waterfalls by height, flow rate and type.

Title: Eldoret
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eldoret
Summary: Eldoret is a city in the Rift Valley region of Kenya. It serves as the capital of Uasin Gishu County. Located in western Kenya and lying south of the Cherang'any Hills, the local elevation varies from about 2,100 metres (6,900 ft) at the Eldoret International Airport to more than 2,700 metres (8,900 ft) in nearby areas.
As per the 2019 population census, Eldoret has a population of 475,716 people and is the fifth most populated urban area in the country after Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru and Ruiru.
A long-standing municipality, Eldoret was conferred city status on 15 August 2024, making it the fifth city of Kenya after Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu and Nakuru.
The city is a significant urban area in Kenya; it is the second largest medical destination in Kenya after Nairobi and hosts the largest university student population outside of the nation's capital. Its international airport is ranked as the nation's second busiest cargo airport after JKIA in Nairobi and has the second largest coverage by financial institutions outside of the capital with over 40 branches in town. The city also hosts a substantial manufacturing sector.

Title: Sipi Falls
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sipi_Falls
Summary: Sipi Falls is a series of three waterfalls located on the north-western slopes of the eponymous extinct volcano, Mount Elgon, in Uganda, with views over the Karamoja plains. The falls are situated to the northeast of Sironko and Mbale, adjacent to Mount Elgon National Park, which is located 1.7 kilometers (1 mile) away from the Kenyan border. The falls account for 10% to 20% of all tourist visits to Uganda every year.
At its highest point, the largest of the three waterfalls, known as Sipi Falls, stands at 95 meters (312 feet) high. The middle waterfall – known as Simba Falls, lies further upstream to the east. This waterfall has a drop of 74 m (243 ft). Further uphill is the third waterfall, known as Ngasire Falls, with a drop of approximately 85 m (262 ft).

Title: Jin Bahir Falls
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jin_Bahir_Falls
Summary: Jin Bahir Falls, also documented as Jinbar Falls and Jinbar Waterfall, is a large waterfall in Ethiopia's Simien Mountains fed by the River Jinbar. It drops about 500 meters and is one of the largest waterfalls in Africa.
The flow is increased in the rainy season. Overlooks can be accessed from the town of Ayehu.

Several bird species live in the area, and author Harry Loots spotted a Rüppell's vulture near the falls.