Title: Marathon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marathon
Summary: The marathon is a long-distance foot race with a distance of 42.195 kilometres (c. 26.22 mi), usually run as a road race, but the distance can be covered on trail routes. The marathon can be completed by running or with a run/walk strategy. There are also wheelchair divisions. More than 800 marathons are held worldwide each year, with the vast majority of competitors being recreational athletes, as larger marathons can have tens of thousands of participants.
A creation of the French philologist Michel Bréal inspired by a story from Ancient Greece, the marathon was one of the original modern Olympic events in 1896 in Athens. The distance did not become standardized until 1921. The distance is also included in the World Athletics Championships, which began in 1983. It is the only running road race included in both championship competitions (walking races on roads are also contested in both).

Title: Yonkers Marathon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonkers_Marathon
Summary: The Yonkers Marathon, is a marathon race held annually in Yonkers, New York. Founded in 1907, it is the second oldest marathon in the United States, after the Boston Marathon. It is held on the third Sunday in October. In addition to the marathon, there is a half marathon race and a 5K course. At the end of the race there is a gathering and festivities centered on Van de Donck Park.

Title: Philadelphia Marathon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philadelphia_Marathon
Summary: The Philadelphia Marathon (aka the Philadelphia Independence Marathon) is an annual marathon sporting event held in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on the third Sunday of November. The Philadelphia Marathon ranks among the top ten in the nation's largest marathons with over 10,000 finishers. The marathon course is professionally certified at 42.195 kilometres (26.219 mi) by the Road Running Technical Council of USA Track & Field.

Title: Kathrine Switzer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kathrine_Switzer
Summary: Kathrine Virginia Switzer (born January 5, 1947) is an American marathon runner, author, and television commentator.
In 1967, she became the first woman to run the Boston Marathon as an officially registered competitor, having entered as "K.V. Switzer". Switzer's trainer Arnie Briggs, and her boyfriend Thomas Miller, were also in the race. During her run, the race manager Jock Semple assaulted Switzer, trying to grab her bib number and thereby remove her from official competition. Semple knocked Briggs down when Briggs tried to protect her, but Semple was then shoved to the ground by Miller; she completed the race. The attack was photographed and reported internationally.
In response to her run, the AAU banned women from competing in races against men—women had not previously been explicitly excluded. Five years later, in 1972, women were first accepted officially to run the Boston Marathon. Switzer finished third in that 1972 race and Semple presented her with her trophy.

Title: Sisay Lemma
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sisay_Lemma
Summary: Sisay Lemma Kasaye (born 12 December 1990) is an Ethiopian long-distance runner.