Title: Alaska
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alaska
Summary: Alaska ( , ə-LASS-kə) is a U.S. state located in the northwestern regions of North America. Part of the Western United States region, it is one of the two non-contiguous U.S. states, alongside Hawaii. Alaska is considered to be the northernmost, westernmost, and, longitudinally, the easternmost state in the United States. It is a semi-exclave of the U.S., bordering the Canadian territory of Yukon and the province of British Columbia to the east. It shares a western maritime border in the Bering Strait with Russia's Chukotka Autonomous Okrug, and is closer to another continent (Asia) than any other U.S. state. The Chukchi and Beaufort Seas of the Arctic Ocean lie to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the south.
Alaska is the largest U.S. state by area—comprising more total area than the next three largest states of Texas, California, and Montana combined—and is the world's largest semi-exclave and seventh-largest subnational division. With a population of 740,133 in 2024, it is the third-least populous and most sparsely populated state in the U.S., but the most populous territory in North America located mostly north of the 60th parallel, with more than quadruple the combined populations of Northern Canada and Greenland. Alaska contains the four largest cities in the United States by area, including its capital, Juneau. Alaska's most populous city is Anchorage, and approximately half the state's residents live within its metropolitan area.
Indigenous people have lived in Alaska for thousands of years, and it is widely believed that the region served as the entry point for the initial settlement of the Americas by way of the Bering land bridge. The Russian Empire was the first to actively colonize the area beginning in the 18th century, eventually establishing Russian America, which spanned most of the current state and promoted and maintained a native Alaskan Creole population. The expense and logistical difficulty of maintaining this distant possession prompted its sale to the U.S. in 1867 for US$7.2 million, equivalent to $166 million in 2025. The area went through several administrative changes before becoming organized as a territory on May 11, 1912. It was admitted as the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
An abundance of natural resources—including commercial fishing and the extraction of natural gas and oil—has enabled Alaska to have one of the highest per capita incomes in the United States, despite having one of the smallest economies. U.S. Armed Forces bases and tourism also contribute to the economy; more than half of Alaska is federally owned, containing national forests, national parks, and wildlife refuges. It is among the most irreligious states and one of the first to legalize recreational marijuana. Alaska has the highest proportion of Native Americans of any U.S. state, at 22 percent.

Title: Western United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_United_States
Summary: The Western United States (also called the American West, the Western States, the Far West, the Western territories, and the West) is one of the four census regions defined by the United States Census Bureau.
As American settlement in the U.S. expanded westward, the meaning of the term the West changed. Before around 1800, the crest of the Appalachian Mountains was seen as the western frontier. The frontier moved westward and eventually the lands west of the Mississippi River were considered the West.
The U.S. Census Bureau's definition of the 13 westernmost states includes the Rocky Mountains and the Great Basin to the Pacific Coast, Alaska and the mid-Pacific islands state, Hawaii. To the east of the Western United States is the Midwestern United States and the Southern United States, with Canada to the north and Mexico to the south.
The West contains several major biomes, including arid and semi-arid plateaus and plains, particularly in the American Southwest; forested mountains, including three major ranges, the Sierra Nevada, the Cascades, and Rocky Mountains; the long coastal shoreline of the Pacific Coast; and the rainforests of the Pacific Northwest.

Title: ConocoPhillips
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ConocoPhillips
Summary: ConocoPhillips Company is an American multinational corporation engaged in hydrocarbon exploration and production. It is based in the Energy Corridor district of Houston, Texas.
The company has operations in 15 countries and has production in the United States (49% of 2019 production), Norway (10% of 2019 production), Canada (5% of 2019 production), Australia (12% of 2019 production), Indonesia (4% of 2019 production), Malaysia (4% of 2019 production), Libya (3% of 2019 production), China (3% of 2019 production), and Qatar (6% of 2019 production). The company's production in the United States included production in Alaska, the Eagle Ford Group, the Permian Basin, the Bakken Formation, the Gulf of Mexico and the Anadarko Basin. Approximately one-third of the company's U.S. production is in Alaska, where it has operations in the Cook Inlet Area, the Alpine oil field off the Colville River, and the Kuparuk oil field and Prudhoe Bay Oil Field on the Alaska North Slope.
As of December 31, 2023, the company had proved reserves of 6,758 million barrels of oil equivalent (4.134×1010 GJ), of which 46% was petroleum, 34% was natural gas, 14% was natural gas liquids and 6% was bitumen.
The company is ranked 75th on the Fortune 500. In 2021, the company was ranked 156th. In the 2023 Forbes Global 2000, ConocoPhillips was ranked as the 83rd-largest public company in the world. ConocoPhillips also ranked 207th on Forbes Best Employers for Diversity (2021), 125th on Forbes America's Best Employers (2021) and 76 on Forbes Canada's Best Employers (2021).
In 2019, an article in The Guardian ranked ConocoPhillips as the company releasing the 14th highest level of carbon emissions in the world. The company is responsible for an estimated 0.91% of global industrial greenhouse gas emissions from 1988 to 2015.

Title: Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gates_of_the_Arctic_National_Park_and_Preserve
Summary: Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve is a national park of the United States that protects portions of the Central Brooks Range in northern Alaska. The park is the northernmost national park in the United States, situated entirely north of the Arctic Circle. The area of the park and preserve is the second largest in the U.S. at 8,472,506 acres (13,238 sq mi; 34,287 km2); the national park portion (7,523,897 acres (30,448.1 km2)) is the second largest in the U.S., after the national park portion of Wrangell–St. Elias National Park and Preserve.
Gates of the Arctic was initially designated as a national monument on December 1, 1978, before being redesignated as a national park and preserve upon passage of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act in 1980. About 85% of the combined park and preserve has additional protection as the Gates of the Arctic Wilderness, which covers 7,167,192 acres (2,900,460 ha). The wilderness area adjoins the Noatak Wilderness. Together, they form the largest contiguous wilderness in the United States.

Title: Geography of Alaska
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geography_of_Alaska
Summary: Alaska occupies the northwestern portion of the North American continent and is bordered only by Canada on the east. It is one of two U.S. states not bordered by another state; Hawaii is the other. Alaska has more ocean coastline than all of the other U.S. states combined. About 500 miles (800 km) of Canadian territory, consisting of British Columbia, separate Alaska from the U.S. state of Washington. Alaska is thus an exclave of the United States that is part of the Continental United States and the U.S. West Coast, but is not part of the Contiguous United States.
The state is bordered by Yukon and British Columbia, Canada, to the east, the Gulf of Alaska and the Pacific Ocean to the south, Asian Russia (Chukotka Autonomous Okrug), Bering Sea, the Bering Strait, and the Chukchi Sea to the west, and the Beaufort Sea and the Arctic Ocean to the north.
Because it extends into the Eastern Hemisphere very close to Asia, it is technically both the westernmost and easternmost state in the United States, as well as also being the northernmost. It is also the largest by a significant degree.