Title: List of tallest church buildings
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tallest_church_buildings
Summary: This list of tallest church buildings ranks church buildings by height. From the Middle Ages until the advent of the skyscraper, Christian church buildings were often the world's tallest buildings. From 1311, when the spire of Lincoln Cathedral surpassed the height of the Great Pyramid of Giza, until the Washington Monument was completed in 1884, a succession of church buildings held this title.

The tallest church building in the world is the Sagrada Família in Barcelona, which surpassed Ulm Minster (161.53 m) on 30 October 2025 when its central tower reached 162.91 m. The central tower reached the final height of 172.5 m on 20 February 2026.
The tallest completed church building in the world was formerly the Ulm Minster (161.53 m), the main Lutheran congregation in Ulm, Germany.
The tallest domed church building, and the tallest Catholic church until surpassed by Sagrada Família, is the Basilica of Our Lady of Peace (158 m) in Yamoussoukro, Ivory Coast.
The tallest cathedral as well as the tallest church building with two steeples is Cologne Cathedral (157.22 m) in Cologne, Germany.
The tallest domed cathedral as well as the tallest Eastern Orthodox is People's Salvation Cathedral (132 m) in Bucharest, Romania.
The tallest brickwork church building is St Martin's Church (130.6 m) in Landshut, Germany.
The tallest brickwork church building with two steeples is St Mary's Church (125 m) in Lübeck, Germany.
The tallest wooden church building is Săpânța-Peri Monastery church (78 m) in Săpânța, Romania.
The tallest church building in the Americas is the Cathedral of Maringá (124 m) in Maringá, Brazil.
The cities with the most churches surpassing 100 metres (330 feet) are Hamburg (5 of the 28 tallest churches, with 5 towers overall) and Lübeck (4 of the 55 tallest churches, two of which with twin towers → 6 towers overall), followed by Tallinn (2), St. Petersburg (2), New York City (2), Dortmund (2) and Stralsund (2).
The cities with the most churches surpassing 75 metres (246 feet) are Berlin (16), Hamburg (9), Paris (8), Dresden (8), Vienna (7), Stockholm (7) and Munich (7), while in the Americas it is New York City (4).

Title: List of tallest buildings in Barcelona
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tallest_buildings_in_Barcelona
Summary: Barcelona is the capital of Catalonia, the second biggest city in Spain. and the sixth-most populous urban area in the European Union. Barcelona and its metropolitan area has about 15 skyscrapers above 100 m (328 ft).
The recent trend in architecture in recent years has been promoting the construction of high-rise buildings as part of a wider modernisation plan that has been taking place since 1992, the year the Olympic Games were held in Barcelona. Most of the skyscrapers in Barcelona were built in the 70s, 90s, and after 2002.
Barcelona has a few clusters of skyscrapers (outside the historic city center): Diagonal Mar (nearly twenty skyscrapers), Gran Via (about fifteen skyscrapers), around Plaça d'Espanya (a few skyscrapers) and Eix Macià (a few skyscrapers). The other skyscrapers are scattered about the city.

Title: Hotel Melia Barcelona Sky
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hotel_Melia_Barcelona_Sky
Summary: The Hotel Meliá Barcelona Sky is a skyscraper designed by Dominique Perrault located in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. The building is 116 metres (381 ft) tall and has 31 floors and 258 rooms. It is the fourth-tallest building in Barcelona after Torre Mapfre, Hotel Arts, and Torre Agbar.
The building is located at the junction of Avinguda Diagonal and carrer de Pere IV, in the district of el Poblenou.
The hotel was conquered by Alain Robert on June 13, 2017 and it took him Twenty minutes. His stunt was repeated by Marcin Banot on August 2, 2018 and it took him 59 minutes.

Title: List of tallest buildings in Spain
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tallest_buildings_in_Spain
Summary: Since 2008 the tallest building in Spain has been the 250 metres (820 ft) tall Torre de Cristal in Madrid. In recent years the number of skyscrapers in Spain has significantly grown. Of the buildings in this list, just 18 were completed before the year 2000 with all others being completed after that year.
For a list of the tallest architectural structures in Spain, which are not classified as buildings, like chimneys, towers and masts, see list of tallest structures in Spain.

Title: List of tallest buildings in the European Union
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tallest_buildings_in_the_European_Union
Summary: This list ranks the tallest buildings in the European Union (EU) that stand at least 150 metres (492 ft) tall, based on standard height measurement. This means that spires and other architectural details are included in the official height, but not antenna masts, as it is defined by the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat. Only habitable buildings are ranked, which excludes radio masts and towers, observation towers, cathedrals, steeples, chimneys and other tall architectural structures.
Tall buildings are relatively rare within the EU compared to other regions of the world that have the know-how and capital to build skyscrapers. Only a few cities in the EU have a notable number of high-rises, best known are: Frankfurt, Warsaw, Madrid and Paris. Most skyscrapers in Europe can be found outside of the EU, notably in three cities: London, Moscow and Istanbul. As a result, out of the top 500 tallest buildings in the world, as of 2024, only one is in the EU. Since 20 February 2021 the tallest building in the EU has been the Varso Tower in Warsaw, Poland, which is 310 metres (1,017 ft) tall.