Title: AGBO
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AGBO
Summary: AGBO (also known as AGBO Films and Gozie AGBO) is an American independent entertainment company specializing in film and television production, and based in Downtown Los Angeles. The company is led by Anthony and Joe Russo (known collectively as the Russo brothers), who founded it in 2017 along with Mike Larocca and Todd Makurath.
AGBO's film productions include 21 Bridges, starring Chadwick Boseman; Extraction, written by Joe Russo and starring Chris Hemsworth, and its sequel, Extraction 2; The Gray Man, directed and produced by the Russo Brothers and starring Ryan Gosling; Everything Everywhere All at Once, written and directed by Daniels and winner of seven Academy Awards including Best Picture; and the 2025 film The Electric State. Upcoming film productions include The Whisper Man, starring Robert De Niro; the MCU films Avengers: Doomsday and Avengers: Secret Wars, a live-action remake of Hercules, to be directed by Guy Ritchie, and the Free Willy reboot.
AGBO's television productions include Citadel, a television series with Amazon Prime Video starring Richard Madden and Priyanka Chopra Jonas.

Title: Donald Mustard
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Mustard
Summary: Donald Mustard (born 1976) is an American video game designer, creative director, producer and writer. He is a partner at AGBO, the former Chief Creative Officer at Epic Games, and the co-founder of Chair Entertainment. He is best known as the co-creator of Fortnite and the creative director behind Shadow Complex and the Infinity Blade trilogy.

Title: Angela Russo-Otstot
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Angela_Russo-Otstot
Summary: Angela Russo-Otstot (born 1978) is an American screenwriter and film producer. She is the chief creative officer (CCO) at AGBO, and is also known for her collaboration with her brothers, directors Anthony and Joe Russo. She co-wrote the film Cherry (2021), produced the films Extraction 2 (2023) and The Electric State (2025), and executive produced the Prime Video television series Citadel and its spinoffs.

Title: Michael Disco
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Disco
Summary: Michael Disco is an American film producer and the president of film at AGBO. He produced The Flash, and is producing the upcoming films The Whisper Man and The Bluff. He was formerly an executive at New Line Cinema.

Title: Njideka Agbo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Njideka_Agbo
Summary: Njideka Agbo is a Nigerian journalist and media executive. She currently serves as the director of the West Africa Interest Group for the International Association of Business Communicators (IABC) Africa Regional Executive Board. She is also the founder and principal consultant of GLANN Media Consult, and former editor-in-chief of The Guardian Life Magazine.