Title: List of male singles tennis players
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_male_singles_tennis_players
Summary: This is a list of top international male singles tennis players, both past and present.
It includes players who have met one or more of the following criteria in singles:

Officially ranked among the top 25 players by the Association of Tennis Professionals (since 1973)
Ranked among the top 10 by an expert (e.g. A. Wallis Myers) before 1973
Reached the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam tournament
Reached the finals of year-end championships
Won a medal at the Olympic Games
Players who have won at least one Grand Slam singles title or have been ranked world no. 1 in singles are in bold. Players who are still active on the tour are in italics.

Title: Grand Slam (tennis)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grand_Slam_(tennis)
Summary: The Grand Slam in tennis is the achievement of winning all four major championships in one discipline in a calendar year. In doubles, a Grand Slam may be achieved as a team or as an individual with different partners. Winning all four major championships consecutively but not within the same calendar year is referred to as a "non-calendar-year Grand Slam", while winning the four majors at any point during the course of a career is known as a "Career Grand Slam".
The term Grand Slam is also attributed to the Grand Slam tournaments, referred to as Majors, and they are the world's four most important annual professional tennis tournaments. They offer the most ranking points, prize money, public and media attention, the greatest strength and size of the field and, in recent years, the longest matches for men (best of five sets, best of three for the women). 
The tournaments are overseen by World Tennis, rather than the separate men's and women's tour organizing bodies, the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) and Women's Tennis Association (WTA), but both the ATP and WTA award ranking points based on players' performances in them.
The Grand Slam tournaments are the Australian Open in January, the French Open in late May to early June, Wimbledon in late June to early July, and the US Open in late August to early September, with each played over two weeks. The Australian and the US tournaments are played on hard courts, the French on clay court, and Wimbledon on grass court. Wimbledon is the oldest tournament, founded in 1877, followed by the US in 1881, the French in 1891 (major in 1925), and the Australian in 1905, but it was not until 1923 that all four were designated as "Official Championships".

Title: List of Grand Slam men's singles champions
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Grand_Slam_men%27s_singles_champions
Summary: Many changes in the Grand Slam tennis tournaments have affected the number of titles won by various players during its history. These changes have included the opening of the French national championships to international players in 1925, the elimination of the challenge round in 1922, and the admission of professional players in 1968 (the start of the Open Era).
All of these tournaments have been listed based on the modern definition of a tennis major, rather than when they were officially recognized by the ILTF. The Grand Slam tournaments are the annual four major tennis events played in the Open Era, which began in 1968, superseding the Amateur Era. The Australian and U.S. tournaments were officially recognized by the ILTF in 1924, and the French Championships followed a year later in 1925 when it became open to all international players. The United States Lawn Tennis Association (USLTA) had several grievances with the ILTF and refused to join when it was formed in 1913.
From 1913 to 1923, there were three official championships recognized by the ILTF:

World Grass Court Championships – Wimbledon.
World Hard Court Championships, held in Paris on clay courts.
World Covered Court Championships, held in Europe on an indoor wood surface.
During that same time period the USLTA recognized the U.S. National Championships

U.S. National Championships, held in New York on grass.

Title: Alexander Zverev
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Zverev
Summary: Alexander "Sascha" Zverev (Russian Cyrillic: Александр «Саша» Зверев; German pronunciation: [alɛkˈsandɐ ˈzaʃa ˈzvɛʁɛf]; born 20 April 1997) is a German professional tennis player. He has a career-high singles ranking of world No. 2 by the ATP, first achieved in June 2022.
Zverev has won 26 ATP Tour singles titles, including two majors at the 2026 French Open and 2026 US Open, a gold medal at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, seven ATP 1000 and the 2018 and 2021 ATP Finals.
Zverev is a former junior world No. 1, and won a junior major singles title at the 2014 Australian Open. He had an early breakthrough on the professional tour, becoming one of the youngest ATP Challenger Tour title winners in history at the age of 17. As a teenager, Zverev won two ATP titles and upset then–world No. 3 Roger Federer on grass. At 20 years old, he became the youngest player to debut in the top 20 since Novak Djokovic. At the Laver Cup, Zverev played an instrumental role in Team Europe's early success, winning the clinching matches in 2018 and 2019. 
After reaching his first major final at the 2020 US Open, he became an Olympic gold medalist in 2021. He suffered an ankle injury at the 2022 French Open, which required an extended recovery period. He rebounded in the following years to re-enter the top 10, where he has since remained a permanent fixture and reached four more major finals. In 2026, Zverev enjoyed his most successful season winning the French Open and US Open.

Title: All-time tennis records – Men's singles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/All-time_tennis_records_%E2%80%93_Men%27s_singles
Summary: This article covers the period from 1877 to present. Before the beginning of the Open Era in April 1968, only amateurs were allowed to compete in established tennis tournaments, including the four Grand Slam tournaments (also known as the majors). Wimbledon, the oldest of the majors, was founded in 1877, followed by the US Open in 1881, the French Open in 1891 and the Australian Open in 1905. Beginning in 1905 and continuing to the present day, all four majors have been played yearly, with the exception of during the two World Wars, 1986 for the Australian Open, and 2020 for Wimbledon. The Australian Open is the first major of the year (January), followed by the French Open (May–June), Wimbledon (June–July) and the US Open (August–September). There was no prize money and players were compensated for travel expenses only. A player who wins all four majors, in singles or as part of a doubles team, in the same calendar year is said to have achieved a "Calendar Year Grand Slam". If the player wins all four consecutively, but not in the same calendar year, it is called a "Non-Calendar Year Grand Slam". Winning all four at some point in a career, even if not consecutively, is referred to as a "Career Grand Slam". Winning the four majors and a gold medal in tennis at the Summer Olympics in the same calendar year has been called a "Golden Slam" since 1988. Winning all four majors plus an Olympic gold at some point in a career, even if not consecutively, is referred to as a "Career Golden Slam". Winning the year-end championship while also having won a Golden Slam is referred to as a "Super Slam". Winning all four majors, an Olympic gold, and the year-end championships at some point in a career, even if not consecutively, is referred to as a "Career Super Slam". Winning the four majors in all three disciplines a player is eligible for–singles, doubles and mixed doubles–is considered winning a "boxed set" of Grand Slam titles.
Prior to 1924, the major tennis championships, governed by the International Lawn Tennis Federation (ILTF), were the World Hard Court Championships, World Grass Court Championships (Wimbledon), and World Covered Court Championships.
Many top tennis players turned professional before the Open Era to play legally for prize money. They played in separate professional events and were banned from competing any of the four Grand Slam tournaments. They mostly competed on pro tours involving head-to-head competition, but also in professional tournaments as the biggest events on the pro tour. In addition to the head-to-head tours, there were the annual professional tournaments called "Championship tournaments" (known retrospectively as "professional majors" or "professional Grand Slams" where the world's top professional players usually played. These tournaments held a certain tradition and longevity.
The oldest of these three professional majors, was the U.S. Pro Tennis Championships, played at a variety of different venues and on a variety of different surfaces, between 1925 and 1999, although it was no longer a major after 1967. Between 1954 and 1962, the U.S. Pro was played indoors in Cleveland and was billed as the World Professional Championships. The most prestigious of the three was generally the Wembley Championships. Played between 1934 and 1990, at the Wembley Arena in England, it was unofficially usually considered the world's championship until 1967. The third professional major was the French Pro Championship, played between 1934 and 1968, on the clay courts of Roland Garros, apart from 1963 to 1967, when it was played on the indoor wood courts of Stade Coubertin.
The Open Era of tennis began in 1968, when the Grand Slam tournaments agreed to allow professional players to compete with amateurs. A professional tennis tour was created for the entire year, where everyone could compete. This meant that the division that had existed for many years between these two groups had finally come to an end, which made the tennis world into one unified competition.
The first tournament to go "Open" started on 22 April 1968 was the British Hard Court Championships at The West Hants Club in Bournemouth, England. The first Grand Slam tournament to do so was the 1968 French Open, starting on 27 May.