Title: Moderna
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moderna
Summary: Moderna, Inc. ( mə-DUR-nə) is an American pharmaceutical and biotechnology company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, that focuses on RNA therapeutics, primarily mRNA vaccines. These vaccines use a copy of a molecule called messenger RNA (mRNA) to carry instructions for proteins to produce an immune response. The company's name is derived from the terms "modified", "RNA", and "modern".
The company's commercial products are the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine sold under the brand names Spikevax and Mnexspike, a respiratory syncytial virus vaccine sold under the brand name Mresvia, and an influenza vaccine sold under the brand name Mflusiva. The company has 44 treatment and vaccine candidates, of which 37 have entered clinical trials. Candidates include possible vaccines for influenza, HIV, Epstein–Barr virus, the Nipah virus, chikungunya, human metapneumovirus, varicella zoster virus, as well as a cytomegalovirus vaccine, a Zika virus vaccine funded by the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, and three cancer vaccines.
In 2026, Time ranked Moderna as number one in their World's Most Impactful Companies list.

Title: Indigo Agriculture
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indigo_Agriculture
Summary: Indigo Agriculture is a Boston, Massachusetts-based agricultural technology company that works with plant microbes, aiming to improve yields of cotton, wheat, corn, soybeans, and rice. The company also offers crop storage and other logistics programs for farmers.
David Perry, who had led the company since 2014, was replaced as CEO by Ron Hovsepian in September 2020. Perry also left the company’s board.

Title: Moderna COVID-19 vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moderna_COVID-19_vaccine
Summary: The Moderna COVID‑19 vaccine, sold under the brand name Spikevax among others, is a COVID-19 vaccine developed by the American company Moderna, the United States National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA). Depending on the jurisdiction, it is authorized for use in humans aged six months, twelve years, or eighteen years and older. The Moderna COVID‑19 vaccine provides protection against COVID-19, which is caused by infection by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. A different version of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine, sold under the brand name Mnexspike (mRNA-1283), was approved for medical use in the United States in May 2025, and in the European Union in February 2026.
Spikevax is designed to be administered in two or three 0.5-mL doses given by intramuscular injection, primarily into the deltoid muscle, at an interval of at least 28 days apart. The World Health Organization advises an eight-week interval between doses to optimize efficacy. Additional booster doses are approved in some regions to maintain immunity. Clinical trials and real-world data have demonstrated the vaccine's high efficacy, with significant effectiveness observed two weeks post-administration of the second dose, offering 94% protection against Covid and robust defense against severe cases. The vaccine's efficacy spans various demographics, including age, sex, and those with high-risk medical conditions.
Spikevax is an mRNA vaccine composed of nucleoside-modified mRNA (modRNA) encoding a spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, which is encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles. In August and September 2022, bivalent versions of the vaccine (Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine, Bivalent) containing elasomeran/elasomeran 0-omicron (Spikevax Bivalent Zero/Omicron) were authorized for use as booster doses in individuals aged 18 or older in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Australia, Canada, the European Union, and the United States. The second component of the version of the bivalent vaccine used in the United States is based on the Omicron BA.4/BA.5 variant, while the second component of the bivalent vaccine version used in other countries is based on the Omicron BA.1 variant. The vaccine's effectiveness against variants has been extensively studied, indicating varying degrees of protection. For instance, during the prevalence of the Delta variant, effectiveness against infection slightly decreased over time. The vaccine's longevity and continuous protection are under study, with ongoing research focusing on its duration of effectiveness, which remains partially undetermined as of the latest updates.
The safety profile of the vaccine is favorable, with common side effects including injection site pain, fatigue, and headaches. Severe reactions like anaphylaxis are exceedingly rare. Concerns regarding myocarditis, have been identified but are typically mild and manageable. The vaccine's formulation utilizes mRNA technology, encapsulated within lipid nanoparticles to ensure cellular uptake and immune system response.

Title: Stéphane Bancel
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St%C3%A9phane_Bancel
Summary: Stéphane Bancel (born 1972) is a French billionaire businessman. He is the chief executive officer (CEO) of the American pharmaceutical and biotechnology company Moderna, known for its COVID-19 vaccine. Before joining Moderna, Bancel was the CEO of French diagnostics company BioMérieux. Bancel is a partner at Flagship Pioneering, and has been on the boards of Indigo Agriculture, Boston's Museum of Science, and Qiagen. As of May 2023, his net worth was estimated at US$4.1 billion, owning about 8% of Moderna.

Title: Deployment of COVID-19 vaccines
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deployment_of_COVID-19_vaccines
Summary: As of 12 August 2024, 13.53 billion COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered worldwide, with 70.6 percent of the global population having received at least one dose.  While 4.19 million vaccines were then being administered daily, only 22.3 percent of people in low-income countries had received at least a first vaccine by September 2022, according to official reports from national health agencies, which are collated by Our World in Data.
During a pandemic on the rapid timeline and scale of COVID-19 cases in 2020, international organizations like the World Health Organization (WHO) and Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), vaccine developers, governments, and industry evaluated the distribution of the eventual vaccine(s). Individual countries producing a vaccine may be persuaded to favor the highest bidder for manufacturing or provide first-class service to their own country. Experts emphasize that licensed vaccines should be available and affordable for people at the frontlines of healthcare and in most need.
In April 2020, it was reported that the UK agreed to work with 20 other countries and global organizations, including France, Germany, and Italy, to find a vaccine and share the results, and that UK citizens would not get preferential access to any new COVID‑19 vaccines developed by taxpayer-funded UK universities. Several companies planned to initially manufacture a vaccine at artificially low prices, then increase prices for profitability later if annual vaccinations are needed and as countries build stock for future needs.
The WHO had set out the target to vaccinate 40% of the population of all countries by the end of 2021 and 70% by mid-2022, but many countries missed the 40% target at the end of 2021.