Title: Formula One
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formula_One
Summary: Formula One (F1) is the highest class of worldwide racing for open-wheel, single-seater formula racing cars run by the Formula One Group and sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The FIA Formula One World Championship has been one of the world's premier forms of motorsport since its inaugural running in 1950 and is often considered to be the pinnacle of motorsport. The word formula in the name refers to the set of rules all participant cars must follow. A Formula One season consists of a series of races, known as Grands Prix. Grands Prix take place in multiple countries and continents on either purpose-built circuits or closed roads, as street circuits.
A points scoring system is used at Grands Prix to determine two annual World Championships: one for the drivers, and one for the constructors—now synonymous with teams. Each driver must hold a valid Super Licence, the highest class of racing licence the FIA issues, and the races must be held on Grade One tracks, the highest grade rating the FIA issues for circuits.
The commercial rights to F1 are leased to Liberty Media Corporation, acquired in 2017 for an estimated $8 billion, previously owned by British business magnate Bernie Ecclestone. The new ownership added five Grands Prix to the calendar: Miami, Las Vegas, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Dutch.
Formula One cars are the world's fastest regulated road-course racing cars, owing to high cornering speeds achieved by generating large amounts of aerodynamic downforce, most of which is generated by front and rear wings, as well as underbody tunnels. The cars depend on electronics, aerodynamics, suspension, and tyres. Traction control, launch control, automatic shifting, and other electronic driving aids were first banned in 1994. They were briefly reintroduced in 2001 but were banned once more in 2004 and later 2008.
The cost cap as of the 2026 season stands at US$215 million, but the actual total cost of running an F1 team often exceeds that due to exclusions outside the cost cap. It is because of this that Formula One's financial and political battles are widely reported. The United Kingdom is the hub of Formula One racing, with six out of the eleven teams based there.

Title: Korfball
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Korfball
Summary: Korfball (Dutch: korfbal [ˈkɔr(ə)vbɑl]) is a ball sport with similarities to netball, basketball, and ringball. The objective is to throw a ball into a netless basket that is mounted on a 3.5 m (11.5-foot) pole. Each team is composed of four female players and four male players. The sport was created in the Netherlands in 1902 by schoolteacher Nico Broekhuysen, and has since spread globally.

Title: FIFAe World Cup
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFAe_World_Cup
Summary: The FIFAe World Cup, formerly the FIFA Interactive World Cup (FIWC) and the FIFA eWorld Cup, is an esports tournament series held by FIFA. From its inception until 2023, the tournaments were held on the latest incarnation of the FIFA association football video game series. The open qualifying format for the tournament allowed millions to compete in the initial online stages, which resulted in the FIWC being recognized as the largest online esports game by Guinness World Records. Due to FIFA and EA Sports parting ways after the release of FIFA 23 and EA launching their own esports circuit known as EA Sports FC Pro for the EA Sports FC series, the FIFAe World Cup has shifted to a football-focused tournament series, with eFootball, Football Manager and Rocket League having tournaments in 2024.
The last FIFAe World Cup champion from the FIFA series was Manuel Bachoore from the Netherlands. Ichsan Taufiq from Indonesia and Minbappe from Malaysia is the current champion from the Football Manager series in console and mobile respectively, while Saudi Arabia's Team Falcons are the current champions from the Rocket League series.

Title: World Women's Snooker Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Women%27s_Snooker_Championship
Summary: The World Women's Snooker Championship (known as the Women's World Open from 1976 to 1981 and the World Ladies Snooker Championship from 1983 to 2018) is the longest-running and most prestigious tournament on the World Women's Snooker Tour. Staged 41 times since the inaugural edition in 1976, it has produced 15 different champions, six of whom have won the title more than once. 
The most successful player in the tournament's history has been Reanne Evans, who has won 12 titles, followed by Allison Fisher with seven titles and Kelly Fisher with five. The inaugural champion was Vera Selby, who won the title twice. Although the tournament had only one winner from outside the United Kingdom before 2014 (Australia's Lesley McIlrath in 1980) most recent editions have been won by Asian players. Hong Kong's Ng On-yee won three titles, in 2015, 2017 and 2018. Thai players Mink Nutcharut and Baipat Siripaporn won in 2022 and 2023 respectively, and China's Bai Yulu claimed her first title in 2024 and a second in 2025.
In 2021, the World Women’s Snooker Tour became an official qualification route to the main professional World Snooker Tour. At the end of each season, the reigning World Women's Snooker Champion receives a professional tour card for the following two seasons, as does the highest-ranked player in the women's rankings who is not already on the tour. If the World Champion is already on the tour, that card will be issued to the next highest ranked player who is not on the tour.

Title: 2024 World Women's Snooker Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_World_Women%27s_Snooker_Championship
Summary: The 2024 World Women's Snooker Championship was a women's snooker tournament that took place from 11 to 17 March 2024 at the Changping Gymnasium in Dongguan, China. Organised by World Women's Snooker and the Chinese Billiards and Snooker Association (CBSA), the tournament was the 41st edition of the World Women's Snooker Championship and the first to be staged in China. The winner received £10,000 from a total prize pool of £33,400, as well as a two-year tour card to the main professional World Snooker Tour from the start of the 2024–25 snooker season. 
A total of 45 players participated in the tournament's round-robin group stage,16 of whom qualified for the knockout stage. Baipat Siripaporn was the defending champion, having defeated Bai Yulu 6‍–‍3 in the 2023 final, but she lost 0–4 to Reanne Evans in the last 16. After coming from 0–3 behind to defeat Evans 5–3 in the semi-finals, Bai defeated Mink Nutcharut 6–5 in the final, winning the deciding frame on the last pink ball to secure her first women's world title. It was Bai's second ranking title from her five ranking event appearances on the women's tour. She became the fourth Asian player to win the women's world title—following Hong Kong's Ng On-yee and Thailand's Mink and Baipat—and the first winner from mainland China. The event produced six century breaks, of which Bai's 122 break in the final was the highest of the tournament and the highest ever made in a women's world final.
The World Women's Under-21 Championship and World Women's Seniors Championship were staged concurrently with the main tournament. Bai also won the Under-21 title, defeating Narucha Phoemphul 3–0 in the final. Tessa Davidson won her second Seniors world title, beating Han Fang 3–1 in the final.