Title: AFC Wimbledon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AFC_Wimbledon
Summary: AFC Wimbledon is an English professional association football club based in Wimbledon, London Borough of Merton, London. The team competes in EFL League One, the third tier of the English football league system.
The club was founded in 2002 by former supporters of Wimbledon F.C. after the Football Association allowed that club to relocate to Milton Keynes in Buckinghamshire, about 60 miles (97 km) north of Wimbledon. Most of the Wimbledon supporters were very strongly opposed to moving the club so far away from Wimbledon, feeling that a club transplanted to a distant location would no longer represent Wimbledon or the club's historic legacy and tradition. Wimbledon moved in 2003 and formally changed the name of the club to Milton Keynes Dons in 2004.
When AFC Wimbledon was formed, it affiliated to both the London and Surrey Football Associations, and entered the Premier Division of the Combined Counties League, the ninth tier of English football. The club was promoted six times in 13 seasons, going from the ninth tier (Combined Counties Premier) in the 2002–03 season to the third (League One), promoted in the 2015–16 season.
AFC Wimbledon currently hold the record for the longest unbeaten run of league matches in English senior football, having played 78 consecutive league games without a defeat between February 2003 and December 2004. They are the first club formed in the 21st century to make it into the Football League.
The club was initially based at Kingsmeadow, a ground bought from and then shared with Isthmian League club Kingstonian until 2017, and with Chelsea Women from 2017. In November 2020, the club moved to Plough Lane, a new stadium on the site of the defunct Wimbledon Greyhound Stadium, only 250 yards away from the original Plough Lane, Wimbledon F.C.'s home until 1991. The new stadium has an initial capacity of 9,215.

Title: Wimbledon (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wimbledon_(film)
Summary: Wimbledon is a 2004 sports romantic comedy film directed by Richard Loncraine. The film stars Paul Bettany as a journeyman tennis pro (once ranked 11th) and Kirsten Dunst as an up-and-coming tennis star. Sam Neill and Jon Favreau co-star.

Title: Relocation of Wimbledon F.C. to Milton Keynes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relocation_of_Wimbledon_F.C._to_Milton_Keynes
Summary: Wimbledon Football Club relocated to Milton Keynes in September 2003, 16 months after receiving permission to do so from the Football Association on the basis of a two-to-one decision in favour by an FA-appointed independent commission. The move took the team from South West London, where it had been based since its foundation in 1889, to Milton Keynes, a new town in Buckinghamshire, about 56 miles (90 km) to the northwest of the club's traditional home district Wimbledon. Hugely controversial,  the move's authorisation led a group of Wimbledon supporters to form AFC Wimbledon, a new club, on 30 May 2002. The  relocated team played home matches in Milton Keynes under the Wimbledon name from September 2003 until June 2004, when following the end of the 2003–04 season it renamed itself Milton Keynes Dons F.C. (MK Dons).
Wimbledon F.C. spent most of its history in non-League football before being elected to the Football League in 1977. A series of club owners believed that its long-term potential was limited by its home ground at Plough Lane, which never changed significantly from the team's non-League days. Meanwhile, the Milton Keynes Development Corporation envisaged a stadium in the town hosting top-flight football and was keen on the idea of an established League team relocating there. The Wimbledon chairman Ron Noades briefly explored moving Wimbledon to Milton Keynes in 1979, but decided it would not lead to larger crowds. Charlton Athletic briefly mooted a relocation in 1973, and in the 1980s the Milton Keynes Development Corporation offered a new ground to Luton Town.
Wimbledon rose through the professional divisions unusually rapidly in what has been called a "fairytale". By 1986, they had reached the First Division, the top-flight of English football. In 1991, after the Taylor Report ordered the redevelopment of English football grounds, the team entered a groundshare at Crystal Palace's Selhurst Park stadium, about 6 miles (9.7 km) east of Plough Lane. This was supposed to be a temporary arrangement while the Wimbledon chairman Sam Hammam sought a new stadium site in south-west London, but the search took longer than anticipated. Hammam proposed new locations for the team outside London, including Dublin, a decision that drew criticism from many Wimbledon supporters. He sold the club to two Norwegian businessmen, Kjell Inge Røkke and Bjørn Rune Gjelsten, in 1997 and the following year sold Plough Lane for a supermarket redevelopment.
Starting in 1997 a consortium led by Pete Winkelman proposed a large retail development in Milton Keynes including a Football League-standard stadium, and offered this site to Luton, Wimbledon, Barnet, Crystal Palace and Queens Park Rangers. Røkke and Gjelsten appointed a new chairman, Charles Koppel, who announced on 2 August 2001 that Wimbledon intended to relocate to Milton Keynes. Koppel said the club would otherwise go out of business. After the League refused permission, Koppel launched an appeal, leading to an FA arbitration hearing and subsequently the appointment of a three-man independent commission by the FA in May 2002 to make a final and binding verdict. The League and FA stated opposition but the commissioners ruled in favour, two to one. The vast majority of the team's fans switched allegiance to AFC Wimbledon in protest. Wimbledon F.C.'s relocation was delayed for over a year by the lack of an interim ground in Milton Keynes meeting Football League standards. In June 2003 the club went into administration; Winkelman's consortium injected funds to keep it operating and paid for the renovation of the National Hockey Stadium in Milton Keynes, where the team played its first match in September 2003. Winkelman's Inter MK Group bought the relocated club in 2004 and concurrently changed its name, badge and colours. The team's new ground, Stadium MK, opened three years later. MK Dons initially claimed Wimbledon F.C.'s heritage and history, but officially renounced this in 2007. AFC Wimbledon received planning permission for a new ground on Plough Lane in 2015, which they eventually moved into ahead of the 2020–21 season.

Title: 2025–26 AFC Wimbledon season
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025%E2%80%9326_AFC_Wimbledon_season
Summary: The 2025–26 season was the 24th season in the history of AFC Wimbledon and their first season back in League One since the 2021–22 season. In addition to the domestic league, the club also participated in the FA Cup, the EFL Cup, and the EFL Trophy.

Title: 2026–27 AFC Wimbledon season
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026%E2%80%9327_AFC_Wimbledon_season
Summary: The 2026–27 season is the 25th season in the history of AFC Wimbledon and their second consecutive season in League One. In addition to the domestic league, the club would also participate in the FA Cup, the EFL Cup, and the EFL Trophy.