Title: Shawn Levy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shawn_Levy
Summary: Shawn Adam Levy ( LEE-vee; born July 23, 1968) is a Canadian and American filmmaker and actor. He is the founder of 21 Laps Entertainment. His work has spanned numerous genres, and his films as a director have grossed a collective $3.5 billion worldwide.
Following early work as a television director, most notably for The Famous Jett Jackson, Levy gained recognition in the 2000s for directing comedy films like Big Fat Liar (2002), Just Married (2003), Cheaper by the Dozen (2003) and The Pink Panther (2006). He then found further success as the director of the first three films in the Night at the Museum film franchise (2006–14). In the early 2010s, he directed films including Date Night (2010), Real Steel (2011), and The Internship (2013), developed several comedy television pilots, and executive produced the first five seasons of the ABC sitcom Last Man Standing. Levy was a producer on the 2016 sci-fi film Arrival, which earned him an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture.
Levy was an executive producer through the entire run of the Netflix original series Stranger Things. He directed the third and fourth episodes of each of the show's first four seasons, as well as the sixth and seventh episodes of the final season. He also directed the Netflix limited series All the Light We Cannot See (2023). Levy has collaborated with Ryan Reynolds by directing Free Guy (2021), The Adam Project (2022), and Deadpool & Wolverine (2024), with the latter emerging as his highest-grossing film and the second highest-grossing R-rated film of all time.

Title: The Internship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Internship
Summary: The Internship is a 2013 American comedy film directed by Shawn Levy, written by Vince Vaughn and Jared Stern, and produced by Vaughn and Levy. The film stars Vaughn and Owen Wilson as recently laid-off salesmen who attempt to compete with much younger and more technically skilled applicants for a job at Google. Rose Byrne, Max Minghella, Aasif Mandvi, Josh Brener, Dylan O'Brien, Tobit Raphael, Tiya Sircar, Josh Gad, and Jessica Szohr also star.
The Internship was the second film with Vaughn and Wilson in the lead roles, after the 2005 film Wedding Crashers; the two had appeared in the 2004 film Starsky & Hutch. This was the second collaboration of Levy, Vaughn, and Stern after the 2012 film The Watch, and the third of Levy and Wilson after the first two Night at the Museum films.
Released by 20th Century Fox on June 7, 2013, the film received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $93.5 million worldwide against a $58 million budget.

Title: 21 Laps Entertainment
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/21_Laps_Entertainment
Summary: 21 Laps, Inc., doing business as 21 Laps Entertainment, is an American film and television production company founded and run by filmmaker Shawn Levy. The company is best known as the producers of Stranger Things, and exclusively distributes content through a partnership with Netflix. It has also produced films like Cheaper by the Dozen, The Spectacular Now, Real Steel, Arrival, and the Night at the Museum franchise, as well as Levy's collaborations with actor and producer Ryan Reynolds, which include Free Guy, The Adam Project and Deadpool & Wolverine. The company's name originates from the number of laps Levy's eldest daughter ran in a jogathon when she was 5 years old.  In addition, the logo is supposed to represent a race track.

Title: Star Wars: Starfighter
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Wars:_Starfighter
Summary: Star Wars: Starfighter is an upcoming American space opera film directed by Shawn Levy and written by Jonathan Tropper. Produced by Lucasfilm and 21 Laps Entertainment, and set to be distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is intended to be an installment in the Star Wars franchise and set five years after the events of the film Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker (2019). The film stars Ryan Gosling, Flynn Gray, Matt Smith, Mia Goth, Aaron Pierre, Simon Bird, Jamael Westman, Daniel Ings, and Amy Adams.
Levy entered talks to direct a new Star Wars film in November 2022. Development was delayed by the 2023 Writers Guild of America strike, and was in early stages in October 2023. Tropper was hired to write the film in July 2024. The title and Gosling's casting were announced in April 2025, with the full cast announced in August when filming began in the United Kingdom. Filming also occurred in Sardinia, Italy, and concluded in December.
Star Wars: Starfighter is scheduled to be released in the United States on May 28, 2027.

Title: Shawn Levy's unrealized projects
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shawn_Levy%27s_unrealized_projects
Summary: During his long career, Canadian and American filmmaker Shawn Levy has worked on several projects which never progressed beyond the pre-production stage under his direction. Some of these projects fell in development hell, were officially canceled or would see life under a different production team.