Title: List of best-selling video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_video_games
Summary: This is a list of the best-selling video games worldwide, ranked up to 50th place by reported software unit sales. Reliable sources are split as to whether the title of best-selling video game should belong to Tetris, a 1988 multi-platform puzzle video game created by Alexey Pajitnov, or to Minecraft, a 2011 multi-platform sandbox game created by Markus Persson and developed by Mojang Studios. Some sources consider Tetris to be the best-selling video game by combining the sales of all of its different versions, totaling 520 million as of 2022, while others consider the best-selling video game to be Minecraft, which has sold 400 million copies as of 2026, rejecting the aggregation of each Tetris release. The closest competitor to either is Grand Theft Auto V, which has sold 230 million copies. The best-selling single-platform game is Wii Sports, with nearly 83 million sales for the Wii console.

Title: List of best-selling Super Nintendo Entertainment System video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_Super_Nintendo_Entertainment_System_video_games
Summary: This is a list of video games for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES) video game console, known as the Super Famicom (SFC) in Japan, that have sold or shipped at least one million copies. The best-selling game on the SNES is Super Mario World. First released in Japan on November 21, 1990, it went on to sell over 20 million units worldwide. The second Super Mario game on the SNES, Super Mario All-Stars, is the second-best-selling game on the platform, with sales in excess of 10.5 million units. The console's top five is rounded out by Rare's Donkey Kong Country in third, with sales of 9.3 million units, while its two follow-ups are also in the top ten, Super Mario Kart in fourth, selling over 8.7 million units, and Street Fighter II: The World Warrior in fifth, with 6.3 million units sold.
There are a total of 55 SNES/Super Famicom games on this list which are confirmed to have sold or shipped at least one million units. Of these, thirteen were developed by internal Nintendo development divisions. Other developers with the most million selling games include Capcom and Square, with nine games each in the list of 54. Of the 54 games on this list, 21 of them were published in one or more regions by Nintendo. Other publishers with multiple million selling games include Capcom with nine games, Square with eight games, Enix with five games, and Acclaim Entertainment with three games. The best selling franchises on the SNES include Super Mario (46.18 million combined units), Donkey Kong (17.96 million combined units), and Street Fighter (12.4 million combined units).

Title: List of best-selling Wii U video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_Wii_U_video_games
Summary: This is a list of video games for the Wii U video game console that have sold or shipped at least one million copies. The best-selling game on the Wii U is Mario Kart 8. First released in Japan on May 29, 2014, it went on to sell over 8.4 million units worldwide.
There are a total of 20 Wii U games on this list which are confirmed to have sold or shipped at least one million units. Of these, 14 were developed by internal Nintendo development divisions. All of them were published in one or more regions by Nintendo.
By March 31, 2023, over 103.60 million total copies of games had been sold for the Wii U.

Title: List of best-selling video games in the United States by year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_video_games_in_the_United_States_by_year
Summary: This is a listing of the best-selling video games in the United States annually by units sold since 1980, with sales figures from Circana since 1994. The United States is a very competitive market for video game developers. Games from different developers around the world have entered the annual lists of top ten best-selling games in the United States. The most successful developers are mostly from the United States, Japan, Canada, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
Among the forty-three reported annual top-sellers between 1980 and 2024, thirteen were published by Activision Blizzard and another thirteen by Nintendo, four each by Atari and Take-Two Interactive, three by Electronic Arts, and two each by Sega and Acclaim Entertainment. Video game publishers Activision Blizzard and Electronic Arts managed to enter the list of ten best-selling games every single year with at least one of their games for the last fifteen years in a row. Of the twelve best-selling games released in the last fourteen years, twelve were from Call of Duty franchise and published by Activision Blizzard. Madden NFL and the Call of Duty series have been on the annual top ten best-sellers list twelve times over the last thirteen years. Call of Duty has been the best-selling video game series in the US for the past sixteen years.
The Circana lists do not encompass the industry as a whole, as some publishers, developers, and the majority of indie developers do not share data with NPD. Some video games companies also do not share physical games sales and some digital storefront sales such as Steam and Battle.net. Companies that share data with NPD include: Bandai Namco Entertainment, Capcom, Disney Interactive, Embracer Group, Konami, Krafton, Marvelous, NCSoft, Sega, Sony Interactive Entertainment, Square Enix, Take-Two Interactive, Warner Bros. Games, and Wizard of the Coast.
Ubisoft has stopped sharing data with Circana in 2025. Electronic Arts, Microsoft and Nintendo does not share digital sales data with the NPD. Blizzard Entertainment does not share Battle.net sales, and other publishers may not share their data. As a result, some games are underrepresented.

Title: List of best-selling Nintendo video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_Nintendo_video_games
Summary: This list covers the best-selling video games by Nintendo that have sold at least 20 million units. Sales figures are compiled from publicly available reports and may not account for every possible release or sales update. For this reason, the order of the games is not indicative of sales ranking but reflects the available, well-documented information. The best-selling Nintendo video game is reported to be Wii Sports, selling over 82 million units. It was released for the Wii console and was bundled with it in most regions outside of Japan.