Title: Crystal Palace F.C.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crystal_Palace_F.C.
Summary: Crystal Palace Football Club, often referred to simply as Palace, is a professional football club based in Selhurst, South London, England, which competes in the Premier League, the highest level of English football. The club was established as a professional outfit in 1905 at the Crystal Palace exhibition building, but has origins as far back as 1861. They used the FA Cup Final stadium inside the exhibition grounds for their home games between 1905 and 1915, when the club were forced to leave due to the outbreak of the First World War. In 1924, the club moved to their current home at Selhurst Park.
Palace spent their early years as a professional club playing in the Southern League, before being elected to the Football League in 1920, and have mainly competed in the top two tiers of English football during their league history following the 1960s. Since 1964, the club has only dropped below the second tier once, for just three seasons between 1974 and 1977. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, they enjoyed a successful period as a top-flight club. After reaching the 1990 FA Cup final, Palace then challenged Arsenal and Liverpool for the English league title in 1990–91, eventually ending the season in third place, their highest league finish. Palace missed out on UEFA Cup qualification because of the limited number of places available to English top-flight clubs after the Heysel Stadium disaster. The club were also founder members of the inaugural Premier League in 1992–93. 
However, the club was soon to suffer a severe decline in fortunes after their relegation from the top-flight in 1998. This was due to financial problems which saw Palace go into administration twice, in 1999 and 2010. They steadily recovered and since their promotion back to the Premier League in 2013, Palace have achieved a club record-extending fourteenth consecutive top-flight season as of 2026–27, as well as reaching two more FA Cup finals in 2016 and 2025, with victory in the latter final resulting in the club's first major trophy in their history. The club followed up this success by winning their first FA Community Shield title that same year. Palace then won their first European trophy, the 2025–26 UEFA Conference League.
The club's kit colours were claret and blue until 1973, when they changed to the red and blue vertical stripes worn today. Palace have a long-standing and fierce rivalry with Brighton & Hove Albion that emerged in the 1970s for competitive reasons. Other strong rivalries exist with nearby Millwall and Charlton Athletic, against whom they contest the South London derbies.

Title: Crystal Light
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crystal_Light
Summary: Crystal Light (Also Known As Clight outside North America) is an American brand of powdered and artificially sweetened beverage mixes produced by Kraft Heinz in North America and Mondelez International Outside North America. It was introduced in 1982 to a test market and released to the public in April 1984. General Foods, a now defunct company, were the original sellers of the product, but now it is sold by Kraft Foods.  It is available in a wide variety of flavors, such  as lemonade, sweet tea, and fruit punch.

Title: Swarovski
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swarovski
Summary: Swarovski (, German: [svaˈrɔfski] ) is an Austrian luxury goods conglomerate that designs, manufactures, distributes and sells jewellery, watches and glass. The company is based in Wattens, Tyrol and was founded in 1895 by Daniel Swarovski.
The company is split into three major industry areas: the Swarovski Crystal Business, which primarily produces crystal glass, jewellery, rhinestone, watches and accessories; Swarovski Optik, which produces optical instruments such as telescopes, telescopic sights for rifles, and binoculars; and Tyrolit, a manufacturer of grinding, sawing, drilling, and dressing tools, as well as a supplier of tools and machines.
Swarovski jewellery is regarded as one of the most prestigious manufacturers of luxury goods. FashionUnited ranked Swarovski on its Most Valuable Fashion Brands list as 22nd in 2025, with a brand value of $4.8 billion.
Today, the Swarovski Crystal Business is one of the highest-grossing business units within Swarovski, with a global reach of approximately 3,000 stores in roughly 170 countries, more than 29,000 employees, and a revenue of about 2.7 billion euros (in 2018).
Swarovski is now run by the fifth generation of family members. It has been announced, however, that for the first time in the company's key history, senior management positions will come to be filled by non-family members during the course of 2022.

Title: Zetor
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zetor
Summary: Zetor (since January 1, 2007, officially Zetor Tractors a.s.) is a Czech agricultural machinery manufacturer. It was founded in 1946. The company is based in Brno, Czech Republic. Since June 29, 2002, the only shareholder has been a Slovak company, HTC Holdings. The company manufactures tractors and tractor components (engines or transmissions).
Zetor was the first manufacturer to develop and produce tractor safety cabins. In its 70-year history, Zetor has sold over 1.3 million tractors. Currently, the Zetor portfolio includes six model ranges with power outputs ranging from 40 to 171 hp (30 to 130 kW).
Abroad, Zetor is represented through seven affiliations in North America, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Poland, Slovakia and India. In 2015, 86% of the total production of the company was headed to foreign countries. In addition to traditional markets such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Germany, its products are also exported to the UK, France, Ireland, and Lithuania.

Title: Steve Parish (businessman)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Parish_(businessman)
Summary: Stephen Parish (born 18 July 1965) is an English businessman who is the co-owner and chairman of the Premier League football club Crystal Palace.