Title: Tourism in New York City
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tourism_in_New_York_City
Summary: New York City received a ninth consecutive annual record of approximately 65.2 million tourists in 2018, the busiest tourist city attraction, and one of the world's overall busiest tourist attractions, counting not just overnight visitors but anyone visiting for the day from over 50 miles away, including commuters. Overall the city welcomed 37.9 million visitors who stayed overnight in 2018, of whom 13.6 million were international. Major destinations include the Empire State Building, Ellis Island, the Statue of Liberty on Liberty Island, Broadway theatre productions, Central Park, Times Square, Coney Island, the Financial District, museums, and sports stadiums. Other major visitor activities include luxury shopping along Fifth and Madison Avenues; entertainment events such as the Tribeca Film Festival; Randalls Island music festivals such as Governors Ball, Panorama and Electric Zoo; and free performances in Central Park at Summerstage and Delacorte Theater. Many New York City ethnic enclaves, such as Jackson Heights, Flushing, and Brighton Beach are major shopping destinations for first and second generation Americans.
New York City has over 28,000 acres (110 km2) of parkland and 14 linear miles (22 km) of public beaches.  Manhattan's Central Park, designed by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, is the most visited city park in the United States. Prospect Park in Brooklyn, also designed by Olmsted and Vaux, has a 90-acre (36 ha) meadow. Flushing Meadows–Corona Park in Queens, the city's fourth-largest, was the setting for the 1939 World's Fair and 1964 World's Fair.

Title: World Tourism rankings
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Tourism_rankings
Summary: The World Tourism rankings are compiled by the United Nations's World Tourism Organization as part of their World Tourism Barometer publication, which is released up to six times per year. It ranks destinations by the number of international visitor arrivals, by the revenue generated by inbound tourism, and by the expenditure of outbound travelers.

Title: List of cities by international visitors
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_by_international_visitors
Summary: This is a list of the top 100 cities ranked by the number of international visitors, including all international arrivals by land, air, and sea, for tourist or business purposes. The consulting firm Euromonitor and the financial services corporation Mastercard define the concept of the foreign visitor differently, thus their respective rankings differ.
Euromonitor counts a visitor as any person visiting a city in another country for at least 24 hours, for a period not exceeding 12 months, and staying in paid or unpaid, collective or private accommodation. Each arrival is counted separately and includes people traveling more than once a year and people visiting several cities during one trip. The growth column compares international arrivals to the previous year.
Mastercard Global Destinations Cities Index counts a visitor only if a person stayed overnight at least once in the city. The income column shows the amount visitors spent in each city. For cities bordering directly on foreign territory, border crossings from country to country are not counted as international visitors.

Title: 2024–2025 anti-tourism protests in Spain
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024%E2%80%932025_anti-tourism_protests_in_Spain
Summary: Beginning in April 2024, there have been protests in Spain against overtourism, specifically in the archipelagos of the Balearics and Canaries, and in the mainland cities of Barcelona, San Sebastián and Málaga. These first three locations are the top three most-visited in Spain by tourists. Following the COVID-19 pandemic limiting tourists' opportunities to travel, the numbers of visitors to Spanish destinations has significantly increased year-on-year. Local governments and residents believe that, rather than sustaining the locations, the overtourism has contributed to a reduced quality of life and increased cost of living for residents.
The BBC reported that while overtourism has concerned residents of the most-visited locations for a while, "[in 2024] it feels like something has changed. The anger among many locals is reaching a new level".

Title: List of tourist attractions in Riyadh
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tourist_attractions_in_Riyadh
Summary: Riyadh is the capital and largest city of Saudi Arabia. The city has many tourist attractions and received around 19.1 million tourists in 2023. It is the second-most visited city in the country, after Mecca. Before the introduction of tourist visas in 2019, the city received around 5 million tourists each year, making it the forty-ninth most visited city in the world and the 6th in the Middle East. The numbers almost doubled in 2021, with 10.44 million tourists visiting Riyadh in 2021. 
The Kingdom Centre and Al Faisaliah Tower are among the world's most recognizable symbols of Riyadh. Prominent festivals of city that attract visitors include Jenadriyah, Riyadh Season, Riyadh International Book Fair and Noor Riyadh.