Title: One America News Network
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_America_News_Network
Summary: One America News Network (OANN), also known as One America News (OAN), is a far-right news and political commentary television channel and website founded by Robert Herring Sr. and owned by Herring Networks, Inc., that launched on July 4, 2013. The network is headquartered in San Diego, California, and operates news bureaus in Washington, D.C., and New York City.
The company said in 2019 OAN was available in 35 million homes and that its audience ranged from 150,000 to as large as 500,000, though that year Nielsen Media Research estimated its viewership to be about 14,000. By July 2022, the network was available only to a few hundred thousand people who subscribed to smaller cable providers.
In 2019, Robert Herring Sr. testified in court that the network was created at the urging of executives of AT&T, which through its subsidiary DirecTV has since been the source of up to 90% of the network's revenues. DirecTV stopped carrying OAN in 2022.
The network's prime-time political talk shows have a conservative perspective, and the channel has described itself as one of the "greatest supporters" of Donald Trump. Trump has promoted both the network and some of its hosts. The channel is known for promoting falsehoods and conspiracy theories.

Title: History of the American Broadcasting Company
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_American_Broadcasting_Company
Summary: The American Broadcasting Company (ABC) is an American English-language commercial broadcast television and radio network owned by the Walt Disney Company through its subsidiary, Disney Entertainment. Along with NBC and CBS, ABC is one of the traditional "Big Three" American television networks.
ABC was founded as a radio network in 1943 as the successor to the NBC Blue Network. It extended its operations to television in 1948, following in the footsteps of established broadcast networks CBS, NBC, and the lesser-known DuMont. In the mid-1950s, ABC merged with United Paramount Theatres (UPT), a chain of movie theaters that formerly operated as a subsidiary of Paramount Pictures. In the 1980s, after purchasing an 80 percent interest in cable sports channel ESPN, the network's corporate parent, American Broadcasting Companies, Inc., merged with Capital Cities Communications, owner of several print publications, television, and radio stations. Most of Capital Cities/ABC's assets were purchased by Disney in 1996.

Title: Showtime (TV network)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Showtime_(TV_network)
Summary: Showtime (now known as Paramount+ with Showtime) is an American premium television network and the flagship property of Showtime Networks, a subdivision of the Paramount Media Networks division of Paramount Skydance Corporation. Launched on July 1, 1976, Showtime's programming includes original television series produced exclusively for the linear network and developed for the co-owned Paramount+ streaming service, theatrically released and independent motion pictures, documentaries, and occasional stand-up comedy specials, made-for-TV movies, and softcore adult programming.
Headquartered at Paramount Plaza in the northern part of New York City's Broadway district, Showtime operates eight 24-hour, linear multiplex channels and formerly a standalone traditional subscription video on demand service; the channel's programming catalog and livestreams of its primary linear East and West Coast feeds are also available via an ad-free subscription tier of Paramount+ of the same name, which is also sold a la carte through Apple TV Channels, Prime Video Channels, The Roku Channel and YouTube Primetime Channels. (Subscribers of Paramount+'s Prime Video add-on also receive access to the East Coast feeds of Showtime's seven multiplex channels.) It is a sister premium television network to The Movie Channel and Flix.
In addition, the Showtime brand has been licensed for use by a number of channels and platforms worldwide including Showtime Arabia (it has been merged into OSN) in the Middle East and North Africa, and the now defunct Showtime Movie Channels in Australia. As of September 2018, Showtime's programming was available to approximately 28.567 million American households which subscribed to a multichannel television provider (28.318 million of which receive Showtime's primary channel at a minimum).

Title: Dominion Voting Systems v. Fox News Network
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominion_Voting_Systems_v._Fox_News_Network
Summary: Dominion Voting Systems v. Fox News Network (colloquially Dominion v. Fox) was a U.S. defamation lawsuit filed in March 2021 by Dominion Voting Systems against Fox News Channel and its corporate parent Fox Corporation. Dominion's complaint sought US$1.6 billion in damages, alleging several Fox programs had broadcast false statements that Dominion's voting machines had been rigged to steal the 2020 United States presidential election from then-president Donald Trump. Fox News argued that it was reporting "pure opinion" regarding what others were saying which, if true, would be protected by the First Amendment to the Constitution.
Dominion focused on allegations made between November 2020 and January 2021 by hosts Maria Bartiromo, Tucker Carlson, Lou Dobbs, Sean Hannity, and Jeanine Pirro. Guests who often appeared with these hosts included Trump attorneys Rudy Giuliani and Sidney Powell, both of whom have also been sued individually by Dominion in federal court. During pre-trial discovery, Fox News' internal communications were released, indicating that prominent hosts and top executives were aware the network was reporting false statements but continued doing so to retain viewers for financial reasons.
In a summary judgment on March 31, 2023, Delaware Superior Court judge Eric M. Davis ruled that none of the disputed statements Fox News made about Dominion were true and ordered a trial to determine if the network had acted with actual malice. Several prominent Fox News personalities and senior executives were expected to testify at trial. On April 18, as opening statements were about to begin, the judge announced that the parties had reached a settlement. Fox News agreed to pay Dominion $787.5 million and acknowledged the court's earlier ruling that Fox had broadcast false statements about Dominion. The settlement did not require Fox News to apologize. It is the largest known media settlement for defamation in U.S. history. Later that month, Tucker Carlson was fired from hosting Tucker Carlson Tonight, one of cable's highest-rated news shows, in response to the lawsuit's allegations of a toxic work environment on the show's set.

Title: 2025 in American television
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_in_American_television
Summary: In American television in 2025, notable events included television show debuts, finales, and cancellations; channel launches, closures, and rebrandings; stations changing or adding their network affiliations; information on controversies, business transactions, and carriage disputes; and deaths of those who made various contributions to the medium.