Title: Ivana Trump
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivana_Trump
Summary: Ivana Marie Trump (née Zelníčková; February 20, 1949 – July 14, 2022) was a Czech and American businesswoman, socialite, and model. She lived in Canada in the 1970s, before relocating to the United States and marrying Donald Trump in 1977. She held key managerial positions in the Trump Organization, as vice president of interior design, CEO and president of Trump's Castle casino resort, and manager of the Plaza Hotel. 
Ivana and Donald Trump were prominent figures in New York society throughout the 1980s. The couple's divorce, granted in 1990, was the subject of extensive media coverage. Following the divorce, she developed her own lines of clothing, fashion jewelry, and beauty products which were sold on QVC UK and the Home Shopping Network. She wrote an advice column for Globe called "Ask Ivana" from 1995 through 2010, and published several books, including works of fiction, medication, self-help, and the autobiography Raising Trump.

Title: Melania Trump
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melania_Trump
Summary: Melania Knauss Trump (born Melanija Knavs; April 26, 1970) is a Slovenian and American former model serving as the first lady of the United States since 2025, a role she previously held from 2017 to 2021 as the third wife of Donald Trump, the 45th and 47th president of the United States. She is the first naturalized citizen and the first non-native English speaker to become first lady; the second foreign-born first lady, after Louisa Adams; the second Roman Catholic first lady, after Jacqueline Kennedy; and the second to hold the position nonconsecutively, after Frances Cleveland.
Melanija Knavs was born in Yugoslavia, where she began working as a fashion model at the age of 16 while pursuing her education. She changed the spelling of her name to Melania Knauss and traveled to Paris and Milan to seek modeling work before meeting Paolo Zampolli, who hired her and sponsored her immigration to the United States in 1996. She worked as a model in Manhattan, where she began dating Donald Trump shortly after Zampolli introduced them in 1998, while Trump was married to Marla Maples. Trump worked to get Knauss more modeling jobs, and she supported him during his 2000 presidential campaign. They married in 2005, and the following year had a son, Barron Trump. Knauss started her own jewelry brand, Melania, in 2009.
After encouraging her husband to run for president in the 2016 presidential election, Melania Trump made only rare campaign appearances, instead helping Donald with strategy. She received major press coverage during the campaign when erotic photos from her modeling years were republished, and again when a speech she gave at the 2016 Republican National Convention was found to be plagiarized from a similar speech by Michelle Obama. In the month leading up to the election, she defended her husband following the release of the Access Hollywood tape that mired his campaign in scandal.
For the early months of her tenure as first lady, Trump stayed in Manhattan to allow Barron to finish school there and to renegotiate her prenuptial agreement. She performed minimal official activities after moving into the White House and held fewer events than previous first ladies. Trump faced several challenges in 2018, including allegations of extramarital affairs committed by her husband, surgery for kidney disease, and a tour of Africa that was overshadowed by scrutiny of her wardrobe and personal conduct. As first lady, Trump prioritized children's issues, launching the Be Best campaign to promote children's welfare and visiting many children's hospitals. She was also a close advisor to her husband, influencing his decisions to end the Trump administration's family separation policy and to ban fruit-flavored electronic cigarette cartridges. In the final months of her initial tenure as first lady, Trump endorsed her husband's false claims of election fraud in the 2020 presidential election. After leaving the White House in 2021, she largely stayed out of the public view before assuming the role of first lady again in 2025.

Title: Tiffany Trump
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tiffany_Trump
Summary: Tiffany Ariana Trump (born October 13, 1993) is the fourth child of U.S. president Donald Trump and his only child with his second wife, Marla Maples.
Born in West Palm Beach, Florida, and primarily raised by her mother in California, Trump earned degrees from the University of Pennsylvania and Georgetown University Law Center. She briefly pursued music and fashion, and later became involved in politics by supporting her father's presidential campaigns in 2016, 2020, and 2024. In addition to her appearances at political events, she gained media attention for her social media presence.

Title: Trump family
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trump_family
Summary: The Trump family is a wealthy American family. The best-known member is patriarch Donald Trump, the 45th and current 47th president of the United States (2017–2021, 2025–present). 
The Trumps are of German descent. They are active in business, entertainment, politics, and real estate. Other prominent members include Donald Trump's father Fred Trump, and grandfather Frederick Trump.

Title: Barron Trump
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barron_Trump
Summary: Barron William Trump (born March 20, 2006) is the fifth and youngest child of Donald Trump, the 45th and 47th president of the United States, and his only child with his third wife, Melania Trump, which makes him a member of the first family of the United States, the Trump family.
Born in New York City, Barron was an apolitical figure during his father's first presidency, attracting media attention despite his mother's attempts to distance him from politics. Trump demonstrated an interest in soccer during that time, signing for D.C. United Academy as a midfielder.
After his father left the White House, he moved to Florida and graduated in 2024 from Oxbridge Academy in West Palm Beach. Trump was invited to become an at-large delegate for Florida at the 2024 Republican National Convention, but declined. In July 2024, he co-founded a real estate company, which was dissolved after his father was reelected to a second presidency. An increase in Republican votes by young men was credited to Barron's advice to his father's campaign about contacting podcasters and other online influencers.