Title: Lil Wayne
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lil_Wayne
Summary: Dwayne Michael Carter Jr. (born September 27, 1982), known professionally as Lil Wayne, is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, and record executive. He is often regarded as one of the most influential hip-hop artists of his generation, as well as one of the greatest rappers of all time. Born and raised in New Orleans, he was discovered by hometown rapper Birdman in 1993 and signed with his record label, Cash Money Records, at age eleven. He emerged as the label's flagship artist until his departure in 2018.
Carter was first placed in a duo with Cash Money labelmate B.G. in 1994—known collectively as the B.G.'z—and they released the album True Story that year, although Carter (at the time known as Baby D) appeared on only three of its tracks. Carter and B.G. then formed the Southern hip-hop group Hot Boys with labelmates Juvenile and Turk in 1997, and released their debut album, Get It How U Live! that year. The Hot Boys gained mainstream success after the release of their second album Guerrilla Warfare (1999) and their appearance on B.G.'s single, "Bling Bling." The group briefly disbanded after the album due to each member (besides Carter) parting ways with the label, although one further album—Let 'Em Burn (2003)—was released.
Carter's debut studio album, Tha Block Is Hot (1999), was his breakthrough as a solo artist, quickly achieving commercial success. It was followed by Lights Out (2000) and 500 Degreez (2003). Carter is credited with revolutionizing the mixtape scene with his innovative approach in the 2000s. His fourth and fifth albums, Tha Carter (2004) and Tha Carter II (2005), both debuted within the top five of the Billboard 200 and received critical acclaim. His sixth album, Tha Carter III (2008), yielded the pinnacle of Wayne's career, with first-week sales of over one million units domestically. It won the Best Rap Album at the 51st Annual Grammy Awards and was supported by his first Billboard Hot 100-number one single "Lollipop" (featuring Static Major), and the top-ten singles "A Milli" and "Got Money" (featuring T-Pain). 
Carter's seventh studio album, Rebirth (2010), experimented with rap rock and was released to generally negative critical reception. A month after its release, he began serving an 8-month jail sentence for criminal possession of a weapon stemming from an incident in 2007. His eighth album, I Am Not a Human Being (2010), was released during his incarceration, while his ninth album, Tha Carter IV (2011), followed months after his release from prison. Despite mixed reviews, Tha Carter IV sold 964,000 units in its first-week in the U.S. His twelfth studio album, Tha Carter V (2018)—preceded by I Am Not a Human Being II (2013) and Free Weezy Album (2015)—was released following long-term delays and label disputes, and sold 480,000 units in its first-week. His thirteenth album, Funeral (2020), became his fifth non-consecutive number one album, followed by his fourteenth album, Tha Carter VI (2025).
Carter has sold over 120 million records worldwide, including over 25 million albums and 95 million digital tracks in the U.S, making him one of the world's best-selling music artists. He has won five Grammy Awards, eleven BET Awards, four Billboard Music Awards, two MTV Video Music Awards and eight NAACP Image Awards. On September 27, 2012, he became the first male artist to surpass Elvis Presley with the most entries on the Billboard Hot 100, with 109 songs. Carter founded the record label Young Money Entertainment in 2005, which has signed artists including Drake, Tyga and Nicki Minaj.

Title: East Coast–West Coast hip-hop rivalry
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_Coast%E2%80%93West_Coast_hip-hop_rivalry
Summary: The East Coast–West Coast hip-hop rivalry was a dispute between artists and fans of the East Coast hip-hop and West Coast hip-hop scenes in the United States, especially from the mid-1990s. A focal point of the rivalry was the feud between East Coast–based rapper The Notorious B.I.G. signed by Puff Daddy and their New York City–based label, Bad Boy Records, and West Coast–based rapper Tupac Shakur signed by Suge Knight and their Los Angeles–based label, Death Row Records. Shakur and The Notorious B.I.G. were murdered in drive-by shootings within six months of each other, after which the feud entered a truce with a "peace" summit in 1997 at the behest of Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan.

Title: The Weeknd
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Weeknd
Summary: Abel Tesfaye (born Abel Makkonen Tesfaye; February 16, 1990), known professionally as the Weeknd, is a Canadian singer, songwriter, record producer, and actor. Regarded as an influential figure in popular music, he is known for his light-lyric tenor vocal range and falsetto, alternative R&B sound, and dark aesthetics, as well as the cinematic visuals and storytelling of his music videos. His accolades include 4 Grammy Awards, 20 Billboard Music Awards, 22 Juno Awards, 6 American Music Awards, 3 MTV Video Music Awards, and a Latin Grammy Award.
Tesfaye began releasing music anonymously in 2009. After co-founding the record label XO, he released three mixtapes—House of Balloons, Thursday, and Echoes of Silence—in 2011. He signed with Republic Records to compile the mixtapes into the compilation album Trilogy (2012), before releasing his debut studio album, Kiss Land (2013). Following collaborations and film soundtrack contributions from 2013 and 2014, Tesfaye blended alternative R&B with pop on his second and third studio albums, Beauty Behind the Madness (2015) and Starboy (2016); both debuted atop the US Billboard 200 and featured the Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles "Can't Feel My Face", "The Hills", "Starboy", and "Die for You". His debut extended play (EP), My Dear Melancholy (2018), featured the US top-ten single "Call Out My Name".
Tesfaye began an album trilogy based on three time points, starting with the dream pop– and new wave–inspired album After Hours (2020), which spawned the chart-topping singles "Heartless" and "Save Your Tears", as well as "Blinding Lights"—the best-performing song in the Billboard Hot 100's history and the most-streamed song on Spotify. The trilogy's latter two installments, Dawn FM (2022) and Hurry Up Tomorrow (2025), featured the US top-ten singles, "Take My Breath" and "Timeless".
Tesfaye is one of the best-selling and most-streamed artists of all time. He has amassed eight diamond-certified singles from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The first artist to ever surpass 100 million monthly listeners on Spotify and the highest-paid musician in 2025, he ranked among the world's 100 most influential people by Time in 2020. His After Hours til Dawn Tour (2022–2026) set the record for the highest-grossing tour by a male soloist in history. Tesfaye also co-created and starred in the HBO drama series The Idol (2023), and the film Hurry Up Tomorrow (2025). His other ventures include hosting the Apple Music 1 radio show Memento Mori (2018–2022), being appointed goodwill ambassador for the World Food Programme in 2021, and advocacy for racial equality and food security.

Title: List of diss tracks
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_diss_tracks
Summary: The following is a list of diss tracks, recorded songs with the primary purpose of verbally attacking someone else, usually another artist.

Title: AI boom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AI_boom
Summary: An AI boom is a period of rapid growth in the field of artificial intelligence. The most recent boom happened in the 2020s before seeing increased acceleration and media coverage. Generative AI technologies include large language models (LLM), which generate text and code, image models, and video models, and world models. This period is sometimes referred to as an AI spring, a term used to contrast it with previous AI winters.
As of 2026, large frontier models have been released by OpenAI, Anthropic, Google DeepMind, Meta Superintelligence Labs, and SpaceXAI in the United States, and by the AI industry in China, including Alibaba Cloud, DeepSeek, Moonshot AI, and Z.ai. Many leading models, largely from China, are open weights or open-source; open weights small language models are optimized to run locally on personal computers. These include many models under Alibaba's Qwen, Google's Gemma, Nvidia's Nemotron, and Meta's Muse Glimmer.
Key advances preceding precipitating the boom include the transformer (2017), generative pre-trained transformer (2018) and reinforcement learning from human feedback. During the boom, LLMs have evolved via the reasoning model, mixture of experts technique, and multimodal learning. 
Controversies of the AI boom include its environmental impact, dominance by US Big Tech companies, effect on copyright, proliferation of deepfakes, threats to cybersecurity and biosecurity, its use in warfare, a potential economic bubble, and existential risks such as AI takeover resulting from artificial general intelligence and superintelligence. Since 2018, observers including Ian Bremmer, Nicholas Thompson, and Kai-Fu Lee have argued an AI arms race or AI Cold War exists between the US and China. The boom has impacted the semiconductor industry, causing a global memory supply shortage. As of 2025, ChatGPT has emerged as the 4th-most-visited website globally, surpassed only by Google, YouTube, and Facebook.