Title: Breakthrough T1D
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_T1D
Summary: Breakthrough T1D (formerly JDRF) is a type 1 diabetes (T1D) research and advocacy organization.
Breakthrough T1D funds research for the development of new therapies and treatments for type 1 diabetes. The organization advocates for federal research funding toward new technologies and treatments and works with regulatory and policy officials to disburse funds. Breakthrough T1D also has partnerships with academia, industry, and clinicians to accelerate research into potential cures for T1D.
The organization has been described as "the leading global organization funding T1D research".

Title: Breakthrough of the Year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_of_the_Year
Summary: The Breakthrough of the Year is an annual award for the most significant development in scientific research made by the AAAS journal Science, an academic journal covering all branches of science.
Originating in 1989 as the Molecule of the Year, and inspired by Time's Person of the Year, it was renamed the Breakthrough of the Year in 1996.

Title: Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_Prize_in_Life_Sciences
Summary: The Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences is a scientific award, funded by internet entrepreneurs Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan of Facebook; Sergey Brin of Google; entrepreneur and venture capitalist Yuri Milner; and Anne Wojcicki, one of the founders of the genetics company 23andMe.
The award of $3 million, the largest award in the sciences, is given to researchers who have made discoveries that extend human life. The Prize is awarded annually, beginning in 2013, with six awards given in each subsequent year. Winners are expected to give public lectures and form the committee to decide future winners. The ceremony takes place in the San Francisco Bay Area, with the symposiums alternating between University of California, Berkeley, University of California, San Francisco, and Stanford University.

Title: List of drugs granted breakthrough therapy designation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_drugs_granted_breakthrough_therapy_designation
Summary: Drugs granted breakthrough therapy designation (BTD) by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Drugs may be listed more than once since breakthrough therapy can be awarded for multiple indications.

Title: Lenacapavir
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lenacapavir
Summary: Lenacapavir, sold under the brand names Sunlenca, Yeztugo, and Yeytuo, among others, is an antiretroviral medication used to treat and prevent HIV/AIDS. It is taken by mouth or by subcutaneous injection. Lenacapavir is a human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) capsid inhibitor.
The most common side effects include reactions at the injection site and nausea.
Lenacapavir was first authorized for medical use in the European Union in August 2022, in Canada in November 2022, and in the United States in December 2022. It is the first of a class of drugs called capsid inhibitors to be approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for treating HIV/AIDS. The US Food and Drug Administration considers it to be a first-in-class medication.
In 2025, lenacapavir was approved for HIV prevention (PrEP) in the United States, the European Union and Canada  and introduced in China. In 2026 it became available for PrEP as Yeytuo in Australia.  India has sought a waiver to bring faster approval for its use as PrEP in the country based on existing evidence, and Indian generic manufacturers have entered into a voluntary licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences to make the medication available at low cost to high priority countries in a "global access strategy".