Title: Russo brothers
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russo_brothers
Summary: Anthony J. Russo (born February 3, 1970) and Joseph Vincent Russo (born July 18, 1971), collectively known as the Russo brothers ( ROO-soh), are American filmmakers. They are best known for directing four films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU): Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), Captain America: Civil War (2016), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), and Avengers: Endgame (2019). The pair are the fourth-highest-grossing directors of all time, with Endgame grossing over $2.798 billion worldwide and briefly becoming the highest-grossing film of all time.
Prior to their Marvel work, the brothers directed and produced the comedy series Arrested Development (2003–2005), Community (2009–2014), and Happy Endings (2011–2012), winning a Primetime Emmy Award for Arrested Development. The brothers co-founded the independent film studio AGBO, which produced their Netflix directorial projects The Gray Man (2022) and The Electric State (2025). They also directed Cherry (2021), and have produced several films through AGBO, including Extraction (2020) and Everything Everywhere All at Once (2022), the latter of which won seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture.
The brothers are currently directing the next two Avengers installments, Avengers: Doomsday (2026) and Avengers: Secret Wars (2027).

Title: Avengers: Endgame
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avengers:_Endgame
Summary: Avengers: Endgame is a 2019 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics superhero team the Avengers. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the direct sequel to Avengers: Infinity War (2018) and the 22nd film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). Directed by Anthony and Joe Russo and written by Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely, the film features an ensemble cast that includes Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Hemsworth, Scarlett Johansson, Jeremy Renner, Don Cheadle, Paul Rudd, Brie Larson, Karen Gillan, Danai Gurira, Benedict Wong, Jon Favreau, Bradley Cooper, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Josh Brolin. In the film, the surviving members of the Avengers and their allies attempt to reverse Thanos's actions in Infinity War, which erased half of all life in the universe.
The film was announced in October 2014 as Avengers: Infinity War – Part 2, but Marvel Studios later removed this title. The Russo brothers joined as directors in April 2015, with Markus and McFeely signing on to write the script a month later. It is a conclusion to the story of the MCU up to that point, ending several main characters' story arcs. The plot revisits moments from earlier films, bringing back actors and settings from throughout the franchise. Filming began in August 2017 at Pinewood Atlanta Studios in Fayette County, Georgia, shooting back-to-back with Infinity War, and ended in January 2018. Additional filming took place in the Metro and downtown Atlanta areas, New York state, Scotland, and England. The official title was announced in December 2018. With an estimated budget range of $356–400 million, Endgame is one of the most expensive films ever produced.
Avengers: Endgame premiered at the Los Angeles Convention Center on April 22, 2019, and was released in the United States on April 26 as part of Phase Three of the MCU. The film received positive reviews from critics, with praise for its direction, acting, musical score, action scenes, visual effects, and emotional weight, with critics lauding its culmination of the 22-film story. It grossed nearly $2.8 billion worldwide, surpassing Infinity War's entire theatrical run in eleven days and setting several box-office records. It was the highest-grossing film of all time from July 2019 to March 2021, when it was surpassed by the previous record-holder, Avatar (2009). Endgame was nominated for Best Visual Effects at the 92nd Academy Awards, among numerous other accolades. An extended version, subtitled Encore, will be released in theaters in September 2026 in anticipation of the film's two sequels, Avengers: Doomsday and Avengers: Secret Wars, which are respectively scheduled for release in December 2026 and 2027.

Title: Production of Avengers: Infinity War and Avengers: Endgame
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Production_of_Avengers:_Infinity_War_and_Avengers:_Endgame
Summary: Avengers: Infinity War and Avengers: Endgame are American superhero films based on the Marvel Comics superhero team the Avengers, produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. They are the sequels to The Avengers (2012) and Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), and respectively serve as the 19th and 22nd films of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). Both films were directed by Anthony and Joe Russo from screenplays by the writing team of Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely. They feature an ensemble cast composed of many previous MCU actors, headlined by Robert Downey Jr., Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Evans, Scarlett Johansson, Don Cheadle, Karen Gillan, Bradley Cooper, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Josh Brolin. In Infinity War, the Avengers, the Guardians of the Galaxy, and their allies unite to prevent Thanos from collecting the six all-powerful Infinity Stones and using them to kill half of all life in the universe. In Endgame, after failing to stop Thanos, the surviving heroes attempt to reverse his actions through time travel.
Preparation for a film adaptation of Jim Starlin's 1991 The Infinity Gauntlet comic book began with Marvel Studios' early films, which introduced the Infinity Stones as plot devices and teased a future storyline with Thanos as the villain. Downey Jr. signed on in June 2013 to reprise his role as Tony Stark / Iron Man, Brolin was cast as Thanos the next May, and many other actors were confirmed to be appearing in the following years. The films were officially announced in October 2014 as Avengers: Infinity War – Part 1 and Part 2. The Russo brothers and Markus and McFeely joined the project in early 2015. The first film's title was shortened to Avengers: Infinity War in July 2016. The second film's title was withheld until December 2018, when it was announced as Avengers: Endgame. The films were renamed because they were intended to tell two different stories. They were designed to conclude the "Infinity Saga" storyline that had been told throughout all MCU films up to that point and end the character arcs of Stark and Steve Rogers / Captain America (Evans).
Both films were shot back-to-back at Pinewood Atlanta Studios in Fayette County, Georgia. Production on Infinity War took place from January 23 to July 14, 2017, with additional filming in Scotland, the Downtown Atlanta area, and New York City. Filming for Endgame took place from August 10 to January 11, 2018, with additional filming in the Downtown and Metro Atlanta areas, the state of New York, Scotland, and England. Final reshoots for Endgame were held in January 2019. The films were the first Hollywood productions to be shot entirely in digital IMAX, using a new camera developed with Arri. Jeffrey Ford and Matthew Schmidt edited both films, and Alan Silvestri returned from The Avengers to compose the musical score. Visual effects companies for both films included Industrial Light & Magic, Framestore, Weta Digital, DNEG, Cinesite, Digital Domain, Rise, Lola VFX, and Perception. Prominent visual effects include the digital characters Thanos and Hulk (Ruffalo) using new performance capture technology, and multiple digital de-aging sequences.
Avengers: Infinity War was released on April 27, 2018, and Avengers: Endgame was released on April 26, 2019, both part of Phase Three of the MCU.

Title: Avengers: Doomsday
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avengers:_Doomsday
Summary: Avengers: Doomsday is an upcoming American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics superhero team the Avengers. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is intended to be the sequel to Avengers: Endgame (2019) and the 39th film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). Directed by Anthony and Joe Russo, and written by Michael Waldron, Stephen McFeely, and the writing team of Chris McKenna and Erik Sommers, the film features an ensemble cast led by Robert Downey Jr. as Doctor Doom. In the film, the Avengers, Wakandans, New Avengers, Fantastic Four, and the X-Men converge from different universes to face Doom.
Two new Avengers films, The Kang Dynasty and Secret Wars, were announced in July 2022 as the conclusion of the MCU's Phase Six and "The Multiverse Saga". Jonathan Majors was set to reprise his MCU role as the villain Kang the Conqueror, with Destin Daniel Cretton and Jeff Loveness hired to direct and write The Kang Dynasty, respectively. In November 2023, Cretton departed, Waldron replaced Loveness as writer, and Marvel was considering moving away from the Kang storyline, in part due to Majors's legal issues; Majors was fired the following month. The return of the Russo brothers as directors and McFeely as co-writer, the casting of Downey as new villain Doctor Doom, and the new subtitle Doomsday were all announced in July 2024. The large cast features actors from previous MCU media and 20th Century Fox's X-Men film series, using the idea of colliding universes to bring together actors from different franchises. Filming took place from April to September 2025 at Pinewood Studios in England, with location filming in England and Bahrain.
Avengers: Doomsday is scheduled to be released in the United States on December 18, 2026, as part of Phase Six of the MCU. The sequel, Avengers: Secret Wars, is set to be released on December 17, 2027.

Title: Production of Avengers: Doomsday and Avengers: Secret Wars
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Production_of_Avengers:_Doomsday_and_Avengers:_Secret_Wars
Summary: Avengers: Doomsday and Avengers: Secret Wars are American superhero films based on the Marvel Comics superhero team the Avengers, produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. They are respectively the fifth and sixth installments in the Avengers film series following Avengers: Endgame (2019), and the 39th and 40th films of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). Both films are directed by Anthony and Joe Russo from screenplays by Michael Waldron, Stephen McFeely, and the writing team of Chris McKenna and Erik Sommers. They feature an ensemble cast composed of many previous MCU actors, headlined by Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, Pedro Pascal, Anthony Mackie, Vanessa Kirby, Ebon Moss-Bachrach, Simu Liu, Joseph Quinn, and Letitia Wright. In Doomsday, the Avengers, Wakandans, Fantastic Four, New Avengers, and the X-Men team up to face Doctor Doom (Downey).
Two new Avengers films, The Kang Dynasty and Secret Wars, were announced in July 2022 as the conclusion of the MCU's Phase Six and "The Multiverse Saga". Destin Daniel Cretton was hired to direct The Kang Dynasty and Jonathan Majors was set to reprise his MCU role as the villain Kang the Conqueror. Jeff Loveness was hired to write The Kang Dynasty that September and Waldron was hired to write Secret Wars a month later. In November 2023, Cretton departed, Waldron replaced Loveness as writer of The Kang Dynasty as well, and Marvel was considering moving away from the Kang storyline in part due to Majors's legal issues; Majors was fired the following month. The return of the Russo brothers as directors and McFeely as co-writer, the casting of Downey as new villain Doctor Doom, and the new subtitle Doomsday for the first film were all announced in July 2024. McKenna and Sommers eventually joined to help work on the scripts.
Both films are being produced at Pinewood Studios in England. Filming for Doomsday took place from April to September 2025, and filming for Secret Wars is scheduled to begin in mid-2026. Jeffrey Ford and Matthew Schmidt are editing the films and Alan Silvestri is composing the musical score for them, both returning from previous MCU films.
Avengers: Doomsday is scheduled for release on December 18, 2026, and Avengers: Secret Wars is scheduled for release on December 17, 2027, both part of Phase Six of the MCU.