Title: MacOS
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MacOS
Summary: macOS (previously OS X and originally Mac OS X) is a proprietary Unix operating system, derived from OPENSTEP for Mach and FreeBSD, which has been marketed and developed by Apple since 2001. It is the current operating system for Apple's line of Mac computers. As of April 2026, within the market of desktop and laptop computers, it is the second most widely used desktop OS, after Microsoft Windows and ahead of all Linux distributions, including ChromeOS and SteamOS. As of 2026, the most recent release of macOS is macOS 27 Golden Gate, the 23rd major version of macOS.
Mac OS X succeeded the classic Mac OS, the primary Macintosh operating system from 1984 to 2001. Its underlying architecture came from NeXT's NeXTSTEP, as a result of Apple's acquisition of NeXT, which also brought Steve Jobs back to Apple. The first desktop version, Mac OS X 10.0, was released on March 24, 2001. Apart from OS X Lion, all versions from Mac OS X Leopard onwards are UNIX 03 certified. Each of Apple's other contemporary operating systems, including iOS, iPadOS, watchOS, tvOS, audioOS and visionOS, are derivatives of macOS. During its history, macOS has supported three major processor architectures: the initial version supported PowerPC-based Macs only, with support for Intel-based Macs beginning with Mac OS X Tiger 10.4.4 and support for ARM-based Apple silicon Macs beginning with macOS Big Sur. Support for PowerPC-based Macs was dropped with Mac OS X Snow Leopard, and it was announced at the 2025 Worldwide Developers Conference that macOS Tahoe will be the last to support Intel-based Macs.
Unlike versions of the classic Mac OS, Mac OS X retained the same major version number (10) for almost two decades, with major releases only incrementing the minor version number (e.g. 10.5 → 10.6). Since 2020, Apple increments the major version component in each major release, with macOS Big Sur getting version number 11. In 2025, the numbering scheme was changed once again, now using the number of the year that follows the release year (e.g. macOS Tahoe, released in September 2025, has a version number 26).
A prominent part of macOS's original brand identity was the use of the Roman numeral X, pronounced "ten", as well as code naming each release after species of big cats, and later, places within California. Apple shortened the name to "OS X" in 2011 and then changed it to "macOS" in 2016 to align with the branding of Apple's other operating systems. In 2020, macOS Big Sur was presented as version 11—a marked departure after 16 releases of macOS 10—but the naming convention continued to reference places within California. In 2025, Apple unified the version number across all of its products to align with the year after their WWDC announcement, so the release announced at the 2025 WWDC, macOS Tahoe, is macOS 26.

Title: Sun Microsystems
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun_Microsystems
Summary: Sun Microsystems, Inc., often known as Sun for short, was an American technology company that existed from 1982 to 2010 which developed and sold computers, computer hardware, software, and information technology services. Sun contributed significantly to the evolution of several key computing technologies, among them Unix, RISC processors, thin client computing, and virtualized computing. At its height, Sun's headquarters were in Santa Clara, California (part of Silicon Valley), on the former west campus of the Agnews Developmental Center.
Sun products included computer servers and workstations built using Motorola 680x0 processors, then later their own RISC-based SPARC processor architecture, as well as on x86-based AMD Opteron and Intel Xeon processors. Sun also developed its own storage systems and a suite of software products, including the Unix-based SunOS and later Solaris operating systems, developer tools, Web infrastructure software, and identity management applications. Technologies that Sun created include the Java programming language, the Java platform and Network File System (NFS).
In general, Sun was a proponent of open systems, particularly Unix. It was also a major contributor to open-source software, as evidenced by its $1 billion purchase, in 2008, of MySQL, an open-source relational database management system. Other notable Sun acquisitions include Cray Business Systems Division, Storagetek, and Innotek GmbH, creators of VirtualBox. On April 20, 2009, it was announced that Oracle would acquire Sun for US$7.4 billion, or US$5.6 billion net of Sun's cash and debt. The deal was completed on January 27, 2010.

Title: List of metro systems
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_metro_systems
Summary: This list of metro systems includes electrified rapid transit train systems worldwide. In some parts of the world, metro systems are referred to as subways, undergrounds, tubes, mass rapid transit (MRT), métro or U-Bahn. As of 16 May 2026, 214 cities in 63 countries operate 961 metro lines.
The London Underground first opened as an underground railway in 1863 and its first electrified underground line, the City and South London Railway, opened in 1890, making it the world's oldest metro system. As of 2024, the country with the most metro systems is China, with 54 in operation, including 11 of the 12 longest networks in the world and the 4 systems with the highest annual ridership numbers.

Title: ChromeOS
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ChromeOS
Summary: ChromeOS (sometimes styled as chromeOS and formerly styled as Chrome OS) is a proprietary operating system designed and developed by Google. It is derived from the open-source ChromiumOS operating system (which itself is derived from Gentoo Linux), and uses the Google Chrome web browser as its principal user interface. 
Google announced the project in July 2009, initially describing it as an operating system where applications and user data would reside in the cloud. ChromeOS was used primarily to run web applications. The operating system first shipped with Chromebooks in 2011. It is also offered since 2020 as an installable Linux distribution as ChromeOS Flex.
ChromeOS supports progressive web applications, Android apps from Google Play and Linux applications.
In 2025, Google announced that ChromeOS would merge with their mobile Android operating system as part of a new project which uses the Android system instead of the old "vanilla" Linux kernel based on Gentoo.

Title: HarmonyOS
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HarmonyOS
Summary: HarmonyOS (HMOS) (Chinese: 鸿蒙操作系统; pinyin: Hóngméng Cāozuò Xìtǒng; trans. "Vast Mist") is a distributed operating system developed by Huawei for smartphones, tablets, smart TVs, smart watches, personal computers and other smart devices. It has a microkernel design with a single framework: the operating system selects suitable kernels from the abstraction layer in the case of devices that use diverse resources. The latest stable version is HarmonyOS 6; it was released on 25 November 2025.
From 2019 to 2024, versions 1 to 4.3 (4.5 TV) of the operating system were built by integrating the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) with OpenHarmony, allowing it to support both HarmonyOS and Android apps. The current iteration of HarmonyOS became known as HarmonyOS NEXT (later it was renamed HarmonyOS 5 in launched of Pura X). HarmonyOS NEXT was announced on August 4, 2023, and officially launched on October 22, 2024. It also replaced the OpenHarmony multi-kernel system with its own HongMeng Kernel at its core and removed all Android code. Since version 5, HarmonyOS only supports apps in its native "App" format.
HarmonyOS 5.x+ both discards the common Unix-like Linux kernel and replaces the previous multiple-kernel, kernel agnostic system from OpenHarmony with its own bespoke HarmonyOS microkernel as a single framework.
HarmonyOS was officially launched by Huawei, and first used in Honor smart TVs, in August 2019. It was later used in Huawei wireless routers, IoT in 2020, followed by smartphones, tablets and smartwatches from June 2021.
In May 2025, the first notebook with HarmonyOS was launched by Huawei, featuring "HarmonyOS PC", i.e. HarmonyOS 5 for the personal computer form factor.
On November 19, 2025, the first 2-in-1 with HarmonyOS 5.1 was launched by Huawei, with MatePad Edge supporting both tablet mode and full desktop counterpart in line with Huawei MateBook PC line.