Title: Stipe Miocic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stipe_Miocic
Summary: Stipe Miocic (born August 19, 1982) is an American former professional mixed martial artist who competed in the Heavyweight division of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), where he is a former two-time UFC Heavyweight Champion. He is widely regarded as the greatest UFC heavyweight of all time.
Across two reigns as UFC Heavyweight Champion, Miocic successfully defended the title four times, holding the divisional records for the most heavyweight title-fight wins and the longest consecutive title defense streak, with three. He also holds the heavyweight record for fight-night bonus awards, with nine. Fight Matrix currently ranks him as the second-greatest heavyweight fighter of all time and the 17th-greatest fighter pound-for-pound.
Prior to his MMA career, Miocic was a Cleveland Golden Gloves boxing champion and NCAA Division I wrestler at Cleveland State University.

Title: Tony Ferguson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tony_Ferguson
Summary: Anthony Armand Ferguson Padilla (born February 12, 1984) is an American professional mixed martial artist and professional boxer, and is the current MFB Middleweight Champion. As a mixed martial artist, he is a former Interim UFC Lightweight Champion. A professional since 2008, he was signed to the UFC from his The Ultimate Fighter 13 win in 2011 until his departure in 2024. He is regarded as one of the greatest fighters never to have won an undisputed belt.

Title: Robert Whittaker (fighter)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Whittaker_(fighter)
Summary: Robert John Whittaker (born 20 December 1990) is an Australian professional mixed martial artist. He currently competes in the light heavyweight division of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), where he is a former UFC Middleweight Champion and the first Australian to win a UFC championship. As of 22 August 2026, he is #12 in the Meta UFC light heavyweight rankings.
A professional since 2009, Whittaker was a contestant on the first series of The Ultimate Fighter: The Smashes and won the welterweight tournament. Whittaker became interim middleweight champion after winning the title at UFC 213; he was promoted to undisputed champion after Georges St-Pierre vacated the UFC Middleweight Championship in 2017.

Title: Jon Jones
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jon_Jones
Summary: Jonathan Dwight Jones (born July 19, 1987) is an American former professional mixed martial artist who competed from 2008 to 2025. During his career with the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), he was a two-time Light Heavyweight Champion, holding the title from 2011 to 2015 and again from 2018 to 2020, and held the Heavyweight Championship from 2023 to 2025. He also held the interim Light Heavyweight Championship in 2016. He is regarded as one of the greatest mixed martial artists of all time.
Jones became the youngest champion in UFC history with his light heavyweight title victory over Maurício Rua at age 23. He holds many UFC records in the light heavyweight division, including the most title defenses, most wins, and longest win streak. He has also defeated nine different former undisputed UFC champions, the most in history. During much of his championship reign, Jones was widely considered to be the best pound-for-pound fighter in the world and spent a record 1,743 days as the UFC's #1 pound-for-pound fighter. Never stopped nor outscored during his career, Jones's only professional loss is a controversial disqualification against Matt Hamill; a result disputed by Hamill and UFC president Dana White.
Between 2015 and 2017, Jones was involved in several controversies and lost his light heavyweight title three times as a result of disciplinary action. He was first stripped of his title and removed from the official rankings by the UFC in 2015 after he was arrested on felony hit-and-run charges. His subsequent returns to the UFC in 2016 and 2017 saw him emerge victorious in title bouts against Ovince Saint Preux and Daniel Cormier, but were both cut short by Jones testing positive for banned substances and receiving further suspensions, with the latter reversed to a no contest. After his 2017 suspension was lifted, Jones reclaimed the championship by defeating Alexander Gustafsson in 2018, which he held until voluntarily vacating it in 2020. Jones spent three years away from MMA before returning in 2023 to win the heavyweight title against Ciryl Gane and holding it until his 2025 retirement. He was the eighth UFC fighter to win titles in two different weight classes and the fourth to defend titles in two different divisions.

Title: Tom Aspinall
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_Aspinall
Summary: Thomas Paul Aspinall (born 11 April 1993) is an English professional mixed martial artist. He competes in the Heavyweight division of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), where he is the former UFC Heavyweight Champion. As of 12 May 2026, he is #6 in the UFC men's pound-for-pound rankings. Aspinall is known for his finishing ability, having finished six of his eight UFC wins by the halfway point of the first round.