Title: Nairobi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nairobi
Summary: Nairobi (  ny-ROH-bee) (Jiji kuu la Nairobi, in Swahili),  is the capital and largest city of Kenya, located in the south-central part of the country. As of 2026, it has a population of 5.6 million and a metropolitan population of 15.95 million, making it the 8th most populous city in Africa and the 4th most populous metropolitan area. The city goes beyond its borders and has expanded into neighbouring counties, making it the 4th largest metropolitan area in Africa.
Nicknamed the "Green City under the Sun", Nairobi is uniquely notable for being the only capital city in the world that hosts a national park within its boundaries. Its name originates from the Maasai phrase Enkare Nyirobi, meaning "place of cool waters".
As the national capital, Nairobi is home to the Kenyan Parliament Buildings, the State House and the Supreme Court Building. It is the major financial and economic hub of East Africa, hosting thousands of Kenyan businesses and international companies and organisations, including the United Nations Environment Programme (UN Environment) and the United Nations Office at Nairobi (UNON). The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) is one of the largest stock exchanges in Africa and the second-oldest exchange on the continent. It is Africa's fourth-largest stock exchange by trading volume, capable of processing 10 million trades a day. Nairobi is considered a global city and was ranked as a "Beta World City" by the Globalisation and World Cities Research Network as of 2024.
Nairobi was founded in 1898 by colonial authorities in British East Africa, as a rail depot on the Uganda–Kenya Railway. The authorities favoured it as an ideal resting place due to its high elevation, temperate climate, and adequate water supply. The town quickly grew to replace Mombasa as the capital of Kenya in 1907.
After independence in 1963, Nairobi became the capital of the Republic of Kenya. During Kenya's early period, the city became a centre for the coffee, tea and sisal industries. Successive post-independence governments have built and turned Nairobi into a modern metropolitan city with a diverse population and a growing economy.

Title: Pakistan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pakistan
Summary: Pakistan, officially the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, is a country in South Asia. It is the fifth-most populous country, with a population of over 241.5 million, having the second-largest Muslim population in the world as of 2023. Islamabad is the nation's capital, while Karachi is its largest city and financial centre. Pakistan is the 33rd-largest country by area. Bounded by the Arabian Sea on the south, the Gulf of Oman on the southwest, and the Sir Creek on the southeast, it shares land borders with India to the east; Afghanistan to the west; Iran to the southwest; and China to the northeast. It shares a maritime border with Oman in the Gulf of Oman, and is separated from Tajikistan in the northwest by Afghanistan's narrow Wakhan Corridor.
Pakistan is the site of several ancient cultures, including the 8,500-year-old Neolithic site of Mehrgarh in Balochistan, the Indus Valley Civilisation of the Bronze Age, and the ancient Gandhara civilisation. The regions that compose the modern state of Pakistan were the realm of multiple empires and dynasties, including the Achaemenid, the Maurya, the Kushan, the Gupta; the Umayyad Caliphate in its southern regions, the Hindu Shahis, the Ghaznavids, the Delhi Sultanate, the Samma, the Shah Miris, the Mughals, and finally, the British Raj from 1858 to 1947.
Spurred by the Pakistan Movement, which sought a homeland for the Muslims of British India, and election victories in 1946 by the All-India Muslim League, Pakistan gained independence in 1947 after the partition of British India, which awarded separate statehood to its Muslim-majority regions and was accompanied by an unparalleled mass migration and loss of life. Initially a dominion of the British Commonwealth, Pakistan adopted a republican constitution in 1956 and became an Islamic republic with two geographically separate provinces, East Pakistan and West Pakistan. East Pakistan seceded as the new country of Bangladesh in 1971 after a nine-month-long civil war. In the following four decades, Pakistan has been ruled by governments that alternated between civilian and military, democratic and authoritarian, relatively secular and Islamist.
Pakistan is considered a middle power and is a declared nuclear-weapon state, with the world's seventh-largest standing armed forces. The Pakistani economy is ranked amongst the world's emerging and growth-leading economies, with a large and rapidly growing middle class. Pakistan's political history since independence has been characterised by periods of significant economic and military growth as well as those of political and economic instability. It is an ethnically and linguistically diverse country, with similarly diverse geography and wildlife. The country continues to face poverty, illiteracy, corruption, and terrorism. Pakistan is a member of the United Nations, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, the Commonwealth of Nations, the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, and the Islamic Military Counter-Terrorism Coalition, and is designated as a major non-NATO ally by the United States.

Title: List of Jurassic Park (franchise) characters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Jurassic_Park_(franchise)_characters
Summary: The following is a list of fictional characters from Michael Crichton's 1990 novel Jurassic Park, its 1995 sequel The Lost World, and their film adaptations, Jurassic Park (1993) and The Lost World: Jurassic Park (1997). Also included are characters from the sequel films Jurassic Park III, Jurassic World, Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom, Jurassic World Dominion, Jurassic World Rebirth, and the short film Battle at Big Rock. These films are not adaptations and have no original source novels but contain some characters and events based on the fictional universe of Crichton's novels. Some cast members from the films have also reprised their roles in certain video games.
The original novel introduces several characters who would appear throughout the film series, including Dr. Alan Grant, Dr. Ellie Sattler, Dr. Ian Malcolm, John Hammond, and Dr. Henry Wu. Jurassic World introduces Owen Grady and Claire Dearing, while Fallen Kingdom introduces Maisie Lockwood, who are the lead characters of the Jurassic World trilogy. Rebirth introduces a new cast, notably Zora Bennett and Dr. Henry Loomis, both of whom are set to return in the sequel.

Title: Intrepid Journeys
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intrepid_Journeys
Summary: Intrepid Journeys is a New Zealand television series, which was broadcast on TV ONE in New Zealand and on Vibrant TV Network in the United States. Making its debut in 2003, the show focuses on New Zealand celebrities who travel to exotic countries to see that country's history, culture and people. Created by Melanie Rakena of boutique production company Jam TV.
A multi-award-winning travel series, it is not a “Survivor” style manufactured “challenge” show.  It is about meeting real challenges in the real world, travelling to lesser-known places and then getting around the way locals do... by foot, bus and camel.
Across each hour-long episode, Intrepid Journeys follows a celebrity traveller for two weeks in a rough and ready destination. The appeal of the show is two-fold.  Aside from seeing a personality rise to a challenge, there is also the chance to gather knowledge and understanding of places, lives, events and happenings foreign to Western culture.
Although they are celebrity travellers, they travel and live as the locals do  - ride bumpy local buses with chickens and goats, stay in  villages and eat traditional food which stretches the palate.
Destinations include Libya, Borneo, Iran, Uganda, Myanmar, Tibet, Madagascar, Nicaragua, Bolivia, Cuba, Vietnam, Ecuador and Mali.

Title: List of people who disappeared mysteriously (2000–present)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_people_who_disappeared_mysteriously_(2000%E2%80%93present)
Summary: This is a list of people who have disappeared mysteriously since 2000. This includes people whose whereabouts are unknown or whose deaths are not substantiated, except for people who disappeared at sea. Many who disappear are eventually declared dead in absentia, but the circumstances and dates of their deaths remain a mystery. Some were possibly subjected to forced disappearance, but in many cases, information on their ultimate fates is unknown.
The global statistical data on missing persons from the late 20th and early 21st centuries is unreliable due to several factors, including international migration and travel and legal protection for individuals who may have chosen to disappear intentionally. According to the International Commission on Missing Persons, "There are few comprehensive and reliable statistics regarding the number of persons who go missing throughout the world as a result of trafficking, drug-related violence, and migration. Even the numbers of persons missing as a result of armed conflict and human-rights abuses, which are more intensively monitored, are difficult to verify, given the reluctance of most states to deal honestly and effectively with this issue".
By the mid-1990s in the United States, the number of missing person cases had grown to nearly one million, though this number declined by nearly half by 2021. In 2014, there were an estimated 90,000 people missing in the United States at any given time, with about 60% being adults, and 40% being children; in 2021, the total number of missing person cases was around 520,000. Per a 2017 report, the U.S. states of Oregon, Arizona, and Alaska have the highest amount of missing persons per 100,000 people. In Canada, the population is around one tenth of the United States; so the number of missing-person cases is smaller, but the rate per capita is higher with an estimated 71,000 reported in 2015. Of these missing Canadians, 88% are found within a week, while roughly 500 individuals remain missing after a year. In the United Kingdom, a 2024 estimate stated that 170,000 Britons go missing every year. In some countries, such as Japan, the prevalence of missing persons is not commensurate with the known data, as significant numbers of missing individuals go unreported to authorities. However, it was estimated in 2025 that 70,000 to 90,000 Japanese go missing every year.