Florentino Pérez Rodríguez (Spanish pronunciation: [floɾenˈtino ˈpeɾeθ roˈðɾiɣeθ]; born 8 March 1947) is a Spanish businessman and politician. He is the president of the football club Real Madrid, as well as chairman and CEO of ACS Group, a civil engineering company.
Pérez began his professional career in the private sector in 1971 and was a member of the political parties Union of the Democratic Centre and the secretary-general of the Democratic Reformist Party, from 1979 to 1986. He has been president of Real Madrid from 2000 to 2006 and from 2009 onwards. During his first six years as president, he implemented the Galácticos policy of bringing the world's best players to Real Madrid. In his first four seasons in charge, he bought Luís Figo from arch-rivals Barcelona, Zinedine Zidane for a then-world record transfer fee, Ronaldo, and David Beckham. From the 2003–04 season to the 2005–06 season, the club did not win a trophy, leading Pérez to resign in 2006.
He assumed office again in 2009 and restarted the Galácticos policy. He brought to the club Kaká, Xabi Alonso, Karim Benzema, and Cristiano Ronaldo, the latter for a then-world record fee, followed by Gareth Bale in 2013. Over the course of eleven seasons from 2013 to 2024, the club won six Champions League titles. Real Madrid has won a record 7 Champions League titles during his presidency. Pérez is the most successful president in the history of Real Madrid, winning 37 titles during his presidency, surpassing Santiago Bernabéu, who won 32.


== Early career ==
Pérez attended the Polytechnic University of Madrid. He joined the Union of the Democratic Centre party in 1979, serving as a member of Madrid's city council. In 1986, Pérez ran as a candidate for the Democratic Reformist Party (Partido Reformista Democrático) and served as its secretary-general.
In 1993, Pérez was named vice chairman of OCP Construcciones. After the merger of OCP with Gines y Navarro into Actividades de Construcción y Servicios, S.A. (ACS) in 1997, he became chairman of the new company. As of 2018, Pérez leads ACS Group, Spain's largest construction company, and has an estimated net worth of US$2.5 billion.


== Real Madrid presidency ==


=== First term ===
In 1995, Pérez ran as a candidate for the presidency of Real Madrid against Ramón Mendoza and Santiago Gómez Pintado. Despite obtaining the highest number of signatures to endorse his candidacy, he came in second place.
In 2000, Pérez again ran as a candidate for presidency of Real Madrid, which he won with more than 55% of the votes, beating the incumbent president at that time, Lorenzo Sanz. Sanz assumed that the recently won UEFA Champions Leagues in 1998 and 2000 would give him enough credit to win the elections, but Pérez's campaign, once again highlighting the financial problems of the club and claims of mismanagement by the previous boards, proved otherwise. Pérez's promise to bring in Luís Figo from arch-rivals Barcelona also played a decisive role in the elections. Pérez was later re-elected in 2004 with 94.2% of the total votes.
Figo also marked the start of Pérez's policy to bring one of the best football players in the world to Real Madrid each season. The strategy was initially known as that of Zidanes y Pavones in which superstars would play alongside the Canteranos, but the players were soon popularly referred to as Galácticos. In 2001, Zinedine Zidane was signed from Juventus for a then-world record transfer fee of €77.5 million. Zidane was followed up by Ronaldo in 2002, David Beckham in 2003, Michael Owen in 2004, and Robinho for a short time in 2005. Initially, Pérez's policy worked to great success, as each new Galáctico had the squad built around them, and the team had a good balance between attack and defence. In his first years in office, Real Madrid won two Spanish championships and its record ninth UEFA Champions League. Pérez claimed success in clearing the club's debt; however, this was contradicted by director Ramón Calderón.
Several years after leaving Real, Fernando Hierro stated that Claude Makélélé had been the club's most important and least appreciated midfielder, saying: "The loss of Makélélé was the beginning of the end for Los Galácticos... You can see that it was also the beginning of a new dawn for Chelsea." From the 2003–04 season to the 2005-06 season with the absence of manager Vicente del Bosque and Makélélé, Real Madrid failed to win a trophy.
Although Pérez's policy resulted in increased financial success based on the exploitation of the club's high marketing potential around the world, especially in Asia, it came under increasing criticism for being focused too much on marketing the Real Madrid brand and not enough on the club’s football. He announced his resignation on 27 February 2006, acknowledging that the team and the club as a whole needed a new direction.


=== Second term ===
On 14 May 2009, Pérez announced his candidacy for president of Real Madrid in a press conference at the Hotel Ritz Madrid. On 1 June, given that he was the only candidate able to provide the €57,389,000 guarantee necessary to run for the presidency, Pérez was announced as the new president of Real Madrid.
In his second term, Pérez continued with the Galácticos policy pursued during his first term. On 8 June, he bought Kaká from Milan for just under £60 million, while on 11 June, Manchester United accepted an £80 million offer for Cristiano Ronaldo, which would once again break the world record. On 25 June, Pérez and Real Madrid announced the signing of Valencia centre-back Raúl Albiol for €15 million. On 1 July, Pérez bought Karim Benzema from Lyon for a fee of at least £30 million, which would increase to £35 million depending on the player's success. On 5 August, Real Madrid confirmed the signing of Xabi Alonso from Liverpool for £30 million; Alonso became the second Liverpool player to join Real Madrid in the same transfer window after full-back Álvaro Arbeloa's £5 million sw