Title: Netflix
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netflix
Summary: Netflix is an American subscription video on-demand over-the-top streaming television service. The service primarily distributes original and acquired films and television shows from various genres. It is available internationally in multiple languages.
Launched in 2007, nearly a decade after Netflix, Inc. began its pioneering DVD-by-mail movie rental service, Netflix is the most-subscribed video on demand global streaming media service, with 325 million paid memberships in more than 190 countries as of 2026. By 2022, "Netflix Original" productions accounted for half of its library in the United States and the namesake company had ventured into other categories, such as video game publishing of mobile games through its flagship service. As of 2026, Netflix is the 22nd most-visited website in the world, with 21.18% of its traffic coming from the US, followed by the United Kingdom at 6.01%, Canada at 4.94%, and Brazil at 4.24%.

Title: Adult Swim
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adult_Swim
Summary: Adult Swim (AS; stylized as [adult swim] and [as]) is an American adult-oriented television programming block on Cartoon Network which broadcasts during the evening, prime time, and late-night dayparts. The channel features stylistically varied animated and live-action series targeting an adult audience. The block's content includes original programming, particularly comedies and action series, syndicated series, and short films with generally minimal or no editing for content. Adult Swim is programmed by Williams Street, a subsidiary of The Cartoon Network, Inc. that also produces much of the block's original programming.
Launched on September 2, 2001, Adult Swim has frequently aired animated sitcoms, adult animation features, parody, satires, mockumentaries, sketch comedy, and pilots, with many of its programs being aesthetically experimental, transgressive, improvised, and surrealist in nature. Adult Swim has contracted with various studios known for their productions in absurd and shock comedy. In addition to comedy, Adult Swim also broadcasts Japanese anime and American action animation, and since May 2012 this type of programming has generally been aired on its Saturday night Toonami block, which itself is a relaunch of the original block of the same name that ran on Cartoon Network from March 1997 to September 2008. Adult Swim operated a video game division known as Adult Swim Games through 2026, which also published indie games not based on the block's original programming from 2011 to 2024.
When Adult Swim launched, it initially ran in the late night hours. It began to expand into prime time in 2008, and moved its start time to 8:00 p.m. ET/PT in 2014. To take advantage of adult viewership of Cartoon Network in the daypart, Adult Swim expanded further to 7:00 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays beginning in May 2023. After experiencing success with the changes, Adult Swim further expanded to 5:00 p.m. beginning on August 28, 2023, eclipsing Cartoon Network in daily runtime; the extension has primarily been used for a sub-block known as Checkered Past, which features classic Cartoon Network original series.
Due to its differing demographics, Adult Swim is usually promoted by The Cartoon Network, Inc. as being a separate network time-sharing with Cartoon Network on its channel allotments, with its viewership being measured separately by Nielsen from the youth-oriented daytime and afternoon programming carried under the Cartoon Network branding.

Title: Live streaming
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Live_streaming
Summary: Livestreaming, live-streaming, or live streaming is the streaming of video or audio in real time or near real time. While often referred to simply as streaming, the real-time nature of livestreaming differentiates it from other non-live broadcast forms of streamed media such as video-on-demand, vlogs and video-sharing platforms such as YouTube and TikTok.
Livestreaming services encompass a wide variety of topics, including social media, video games, professional sports, and lifecasting. Platforms such as Facebook Live, Periscope, Kuaishou, Douyu, bilibili, YouTube, and 17 include the streaming of scheduled promotions and celebrity events as well as streaming between users, as in videotelephony. Livestreaming sites such as Twitch and Kick have become popular outlets for watching people play video games, such as in esports, Let's Play-style gaming, or speedrunning. Live coverage of sporting events is a common application.
Chat rooms are a key feature in livestreaming, allowing viewers to interact with the broadcaster (streamer) and join ongoing conversations. These rooms often include emojis and emotes as additional communication tools.

Title: 2024 in video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_in_video_games
Summary: The video game industry in 2024 was still in midst of large-scale layoffs since 2022, including large cuts from Microsoft Gaming, Electronic Arts, and Sony Interactive Entertainment. Nearly 15,000 jobs were cut this year.

Title: 2023 Streamer Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023_Streamer_Awards
Summary: The 2023 Streamer Awards was the third edition of The Streamer Awards honoring the best in live streaming in 2023. The ceremony was held at the Wiltern Theatre in Los Angeles, California, on February 17, 2024. It was hosted by showrunner QTCinderella and fellow streamer Pokimane.
The red carpet was hosted by CDawgVA, ExtraEmily, and Will Neff. AustinShow would serve as the floor host during the show, while Prezoh would conduct interviews backstage with the winners which would be uploaded to the Patreon page for QTCinderella and Maya Higa's podcast, Wine About It.
This edition was partnered with Streamlabs, OMEN, AT&T, Fourthwall, Loaded and Offbrand, and sponsored by Marvel Snap, Chess.com, Enotria: The Last Song, Lunar Client, UnlimitedIRL, Honkai: Star Rail, Factor, Party Animals, FlyQuest, Twitch, Junkfood Custom Arcades, Feastables, Mad Mushroom, Nightingale and Patreon.
For this edition, eight new categories were added (Best Creative Arts Streamer, Best Software And Game Development Streamer, Best Fighting Games Streamer, Best Shared Channel, Best Streamed Series, Best International Streamer, Best Breakthrough Streamer, and The Sapphire Award), two were removed (Best Soulslike Streamer and Best Philanthropic Stream Event), and four were merged into existing or new categories (Best Art Streamer and Best Music Streamer merged into Best Creative Arts Streamer, Best League of Legends Streamer merged into Best Strategy Game Streamer, and Best VALORANT Streamer merged into Best FPS Streamer).
This was the first edition to be streamed on multiple platforms and had interactive features for viewers on Twitch, including "pickems".
This edition of the awards peaked at 645,166 live concurrent viewers across all platforms and channels, the most of any of the previous editions.