Title: List of presidents of Portugal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_presidents_of_Portugal
Summary: The complete list of presidents of the Portuguese Republic consists of the 21 heads of state in the history of Portugal since the 5 October 1910 revolution that installed a republican regime.
This list includes not only those persons who were sworn into office as President of Portugal but also those who de facto served as head of state since 1910. This is the case of Teófilo Braga who served as President of the Provisional Government after the republican coup d'état. Also Sidónio Pais, Mendes Cabeçadas, Gomes da Costa, as well as Canto e Castro and Óscar Carmona in their early months, were not sworn into office as presidents of the Republic, usually being prime ministers, but de facto accumulated this function, thus combining in practice head of state and head of government in one person.
See the notes for more information.

Title: President of Portugal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_Portugal
Summary: The president of Portugal, officially the president of the Portuguese Republic, is the head of state and highest office of Portugal.
The powers, functions and duties of prior presidential offices, and their relation with the prime minister and cabinets have over time differed with the various Portuguese constitutions. Currently, in the Third Republic, a semi-presidential system, the president holds no direct executive power, unlike his counterparts in the United States and France. However, even though he is in general a ceremonial figure, he holds some powers less-commonly found in parliamentary systems: one of his most significant responsibilities is the promulgation of all laws enacted by the Assembly of the Republic (parliament) or the Government (an act without which such laws have no legal validity), with an alternative option to veto them (although this veto can be overcome in the case of laws approved by Parliament) or send them to the Constitutional Court for appreciation of whether they violate the Constitution. This and other abilities imply that the president of Portugal does not fit clearly into either of the three traditional powers – legislative, executive and judicial – acting instead as a sort of "moderating power" among the traditional three.
The current president of Portugal is António José Seguro, who took office on 9 March 2026.

Title: Government of Portugal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Government_of_Portugal
Summary: The Government of Portugal, also referred to as the Government of the Republic, is one of the four sovereignty bodies of Portugal, together with the president, the assembly of the Republic and the courts. It is both the body of sovereignty that conducts the general politics of the country and the superior body of the Portuguese public administration.
The term "constitutional government" or simply "government" also refers to the team of ministers and its period of management under one prime minister. This concept is similar to an "administration" in the parlance of a presidential republic or to a "collective ministry" in the parlance of some Commonwealth countries. Each government in this sense is identified by a roman number, with the present one (formed in June 2025) being the XXV Constitutional Government since the establishment of the current democratic regime, in 1976.

Title: President of the Regional Government of Madeira
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_the_Regional_Government_of_Madeira
Summary: The President of the Regional Government of Madeira is the head of the devolved government of the Madeira archipelago, since the Carnation Revolution that established the current democratic regime in Portugal and granted political autonomy to the Portuguese islands.
Following the 1974 Revolution, provisional governing bodies were created, whose presiding officers are listed below. After the first elections for the Regional Parliament, held on 27 June 1976, the leader of the largest party Jaime Ornelas Camacho was appointed President of the Regional Government.
There have only been three officeholders and all of them were members of the Social Democratic Party. Alberto João Jardim held the office for 37 consecutive years. The current President is Miguel Albuquerque.

Title: XXV Constitutional Government of Portugal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XXV_Constitutional_Government_of_Portugal
Summary: The 25th Constitutional Government of Portugal (Portuguese: XXV Governo Constitucional de Portugal) is the current cabinet of the Portuguese government, led by Prime Minister Luís Montenegro. It was sworn in on 5 June 2025.