Title: List of Eurovision Song Contest winners
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Eurovision_Song_Contest_winners
Summary: 73 songs written by 154 songwriters have won the Eurovision Song Contest, an international song competition organised annually by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU). The contest, which has been broadcast every year since its debut in 1956, is one of the longest-running television programmes in the world. The contest's winner has been determined using numerous voting techniques throughout its history; centre to these have been the awarding of points by juries or televoters. The entry awarded the most points is declared the winner. The first contest was not won on points, but by votes (two per country), and only the winner was announced.
There have been 70 contests, with one winner each year except for the tied 1969 contest, which had four. Songs representing 28 countries have won the contest, with Switzerland winning the first contest in 1956. The countries with the highest number of wins are Ireland and Sweden with seven wins each. Two people have won more than once as a performer: Ireland's Johnny Logan, who performed "What's Another Year" in 1980 and "Hold Me Now" in 1987, and Sweden's Loreen, who performed "Euphoria" in 2012 and "Tattoo" in 2023. Logan is also one of seven songwriters to have written more than one winning entry ("Hold Me Now" and "Why Me?" performed by Linda Martin in 1992), and is the only person to have three Eurovision victories to their credit, as either singer, songwriter or both. The other six songwriters with more than one winning entry to their credit are Willy van Hemert (Netherlands 1957 and 1959), Yves Dessca (Monaco 1971 and Luxembourg 1972), Rolf Løvland (Norway 1985 and 1995), Brendan Graham (Ireland 1994 and 1996), and Thomas G:son and Peter Boström (both for Sweden 2012 and 2023).
Relatively few winners of the Eurovision Song Contest have gone on to achieve major success in the music industry. The most notable winners who have gone on to become international stars are ABBA, who won for Sweden in 1974 with their song "Waterloo", and Céline Dion, who won for Switzerland in 1988 with the song "Ne partez pas sans moi". More recently, Duncan Laurence, who won for the Netherlands in 2019 with "Arcade", experienced worldwide streaming success with the song as a sleeper hit throughout 2020 and 2021, with it becoming the most streamed Eurovision entry on Spotify. Måneskin, winners for Italy in 2021 with "Zitti e buoni", subsequently achieved worldwide popularity in the months following their victory.
The performer and the songwriter(s) of the winning song only receive a medal or a trophy, while its participating broadcaster is invited to host the following year's contest. Since 2008, the performer has been awarded a handmade trophy of sandblasted glass in the shape of a 1950s microphone, while the songwriter(s) and the broadcaster receive smaller versions of the trophy. Its original design was created by Kjell Engman of Kosta Boda, who specialises in glass art. This trophy is notoriously fragile, and the support infamously broke on stage right after being received by Alexander Rybak, who won for Norway in 2009, and by Nemo, who won for Switzerland in 2024. The trophies given to Emmelie de Forest, who won for Denmark in 2013, to Netta, who won for Israel in 2018, and to JJ, who won for Austria in 2025, also broke in the exact same spot after the event. Despite this, no redesigns have been made since.

Title: List of countries in the Eurovision Song Contest
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_in_the_Eurovision_Song_Contest
Summary: Broadcasters from fifty-two countries have participated in the Eurovision Song Contest since its inaugural edition in 1956, with winning songs coming from twenty-eight of those countries. The contest, organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU), is held annually between members of the union who participate representing their countries. Broadcasters submit songs to the event where they are performed live by the performer(s) they had selected and cast votes to determine the winning song of the competition.
Participation in the contest is primarily open to all broadcasters with full EBU membership, with only one entrant per country allowed in any given year. To become a full member of the EBU, a broadcaster has to be from a country which is covered by the European Broadcasting Area—which is not limited only to the continent of Europe—or is a member state of the Council of Europe; a statutory revision in 2026 allows for broadcasters from observer states of the Council of Europe to also apply for full membership. Thus, eligibility is not determined by geographic inclusion within Europe, despite the "Euro" in "Eurovision", nor does it have a direct connection with the European Union. Several countries geographically outside the boundaries of Europe have been represented in the contest: Israel, Cyprus, and Armenia, in Western Asia, since 1973, 1981, and 2006 respectively; Morocco, in North Africa, only in 1980; and Australia since 2015; Canada, in North America, is set to make its debut in 2027. In addition, several transcontinental countries with only part of their territory in Europe have been represented: Turkey, from 1975 to 2012; Russia, from 1994 to 2021; Georgia, since 2007; and Azerbaijan, since 2008. Two countries that have previously sought to enter the competition, Lebanon and Tunisia, in Western Asia and North Africa respectively, are also outside of Europe. Australia, where the contest has been broadcast since 1983, has been represented every year since its debut in 2015, as its broadcaster is an EBU associate member and had received special approval from the contest's reference group.
The number of countries represented each year has grown steadily, from seven in 1956 to over twenty in the late 1980s. A record forty-three countries participated in 2008, 2011, and 2018. As the number of contestants has risen, preliminary competitions and relegation have been introduced, to ensure that as many countries as possible get the chance to compete. In 1993, a preliminary show, Kvalifikacija za Millstreet ("Qualification for Millstreet"), was held to select three Eastern European countries to compete for the first time in the main contest. After the 1993 contest, a relegation rule was introduced: the six lowest-placed countries in the contest would not compete in the following year. In 1996, a new system was introduced. Audiotapes of all twenty-nine entrants were submitted to national juries. The twenty-two highest-placed songs after the juries voted reached the contest. Norway, as the host country, directly qualified for the final. From 1997 to 2001, a system was used whereby the countries with the lowest average scores over the previous five years were relegated.
The relegation system used in 1994 and 1995 was used again between 1997 and 2003. Since 1999, the winning country in the previous year's contest automatically qualifies for the following year's final, along with the "Big" countries whose broadcasters are the largest financial contributors to the EBU. In 2004, a semi-final was introduced. In addition to the "Big" countries, the countries that were in the top 10 the previous year received a bye and qualified directly for the final. A further ten countries qualified from the semi-final, making a total of 24 in the final. Since 2008, two semi-finals are held with all countries, except the previous year's winner and the "Big" countries, participating in one of the semi-finals.
Some countries, such as Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Belgium, and Switzerland, have entered most years, while Morocco has only entered once. Two countries, Tunisia and Lebanon, have attempted to enter the contest but withdrew before making a debut.

Title: Eurovision Song Contest 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eurovision_Song_Contest_2024
Summary: The Eurovision Song Contest 2024 was the 68th edition of the Eurovision Song Contest. It consisted of two semi-finals on 7 and 9 May and a final on 11 May 2024, held at the Malmö Arena in Malmö, Sweden, and presented by Petra Mede and Malin Åkerman. It was organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and host broadcaster Sveriges Television (SVT), which staged the event after winning the 2023 contest for Sweden with the song "Tattoo" by Loreen. Mede had previously presented the 2013 and 2016 contests.
Broadcasters from thirty-seven countries participated in the contest, the same number as in 2023. Romania opted not to participate, and Luxembourg competed for the first time since 1993. The Netherlands was disqualified from the contest between the second semi-final and the final, but the country retained its right to vote. The inclusion of Israel among the participants in the context of the Gaza war was met with controversy, and additional security measures were put in place for the event.
The winner was Switzerland with the song "The Code", performed by Nemo who wrote it with Benjamin Alasu, Lasse Midtsian Nymann, and Linda Dale. Switzerland won the combined vote and jury vote, and placed fifth in the televote. Croatia won the televote and finished in second place, its best result to date as an independent country, having previously won in 1989 as a part of Yugoslavia. Ukraine, France, and Israel completed the top five.
The EBU reported that the contest had a television audience of 163 million viewers in 37 European markets, an increase of a million viewers from the previous edition, with an additional 7.3 million viewers online on YouTube.

Title: Eurovision Song Contest 2025
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eurovision_Song_Contest_2025
Summary: The Eurovision Song Contest 2025 was the 69th edition of the Eurovision Song Contest. It consisted of two semi-finals on 13 and 15 May and a final on 17 May 2025, held at St. Jakobshalle in Basel, Switzerland, and presented by Hazel Brugger and Sandra Studer, with Michelle Hunziker joining for the final. It was organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and host broadcaster the Swiss Broadcasting Corporation (SRG SSR), which staged the event after winning the 2024 contest for Switzerland with the song "The Code" by Nemo.
Broadcasters from thirty-seven countries participated in the contest, the same number as the previous two editions. Montenegro returned after a two-year absence, while Moldova, which had originally planned to participate, later withdrew due to economic reasons and the quality of the songs competing in its national selection. Israel's participation continued to cause controversy in the context of the Gaza war, with some participating broadcasters calling for a discussion on the issue.
The winner was Austria with the song "Wasted Love", performed by JJ and written by him along with Teodora Špirić and Thomas Thurner. Austria won the combined vote and jury vote, and placed fourth in the televote. Israel won the televote and finished in second place, with Estonia, Sweden, and Italy completing the top five. The EBU reported that the contest had a television audience of 166 million viewers in 37 European markets, an increase of three million viewers from the previous edition.

Title: Eurovision Song Contest 2027
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eurovision_Song_Contest_2027
Summary: The Eurovision Song Contest 2027 is the upcoming 71st edition of the Eurovision Song Contest. It will consist of two semi-finals on 11 and 13 May and a final on 15 May 2027, held at Arena Burgas in Burgas, Bulgaria. It is being organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and host broadcaster Bulgarian National Television (BNT), which will stage the event after winning the 2026 contest for Bulgaria with the song "Bangaranga" by Dara.