Anora is a 2024 American romantic comedy-drama film written, directed, produced, and edited by Sean Baker. It stars Mikey Madison as Anora "Ani" Mikheeva, a lap dancer from New York who marries the wealthy son of a Russian oligarch played by Mark Eydelshteyn. The supporting cast includes Yura Borisov, Karren Karagulian, Vache Tovmasyan, Darya Ekamasova, and Aleksei Serebryakov.
Anora premiered at the 77th Cannes Film Festival on May 21, 2024, where it received critical acclaim and won the Palme d'Or. It was released theatrically on October 18, 2024, by Neon, with Focus Features releasing in other territories. It grossed $59.3 million worldwide against a $6 million budget, making it Baker's highest-grossing film.
Anora received numerous accolades and was named one of the top ten films of 2024 by the National Board of Review and the American Film Institute. It received six nominations at the 97th Academy Awards, winning five for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actress (Madison), Best Original Screenplay, and Best Film Editing. It is one of only four films to win both the Palme d'Or and the Academy Award for Best Picture. Anora won for International Movie at the 70th David di Donatello awards, and received seven nominations at the 78th British Academy Film Awards, winning two; five at the 82nd Golden Globe Awards; and three at the 31st Screen Actors Guild Awards. 


== Plot ==
Anora "Ani" Mikheeva, a 23-year-old stripper, lives in Brighton Beach, a Russian-American neighborhood in Brooklyn, New York. Her boss introduces her to Ivan "Vanya" Zakharov, the 21-year-old son of the Russian oligarch Nikolai Zakharov, who has requested a dancer fluent in Russian. Though Vanya is in the U.S. to study, he spends most of his time partying in clubs, getting drunk and stoned and playing video games in his parents' lavish Brooklyn mansion.
Vanya hires Ani for several sexual encounters. He invites her to a New Year's Eve party at the mansion, and the following day, he offers her $15,000 to be his girlfriend for a week. During the week, Ani parties with Vanya and his friends, and they all go on an extravagant trip to Las Vegas. At the end of the trip, Vanya reveals that he has to return to Russia permanently to work at his father's company and expresses disdain for his parents. He suggests that he will not have to leave if he marries an American and impulsively proposes marriage. Ani is reluctant at first but agrees after Vanya assures her that his feelings are genuine. They elope at a Vegas wedding chapel. Vanya then buys her a large wedding ring and an expensive fur coat. She resigns from her job and moves into Vanya's mansion. When news of their marriage reaches Russia, Vanya's mother, Galina, orders his Armenian godfather, Toros, to find them and arrange an annulment while she and his father, Nikolai, fly to the U.S.
Toros sends his henchmen, Garnik and Igor, to the mansion. They inform Vanya that his parents are taking him back to Russia and enrage Ani by calling her a prostitute, suggesting Vanya only married her for a green card. Vanya flees the premises, and Ani engages in a violent struggle with Garnik and Igor before they restrain her. When Toros arrives, he tells Ani that Vanya's mansion and wealth belong to his parents and that he is immature and financially dependent on them. He confiscates her wedding ring, gags her after she starts screaming, and offers her $10,000 for the annulment. Ani insists she and Vanya are in love, but she agrees to help find him.
Over the next 12 hours, Ani, Toros, Garnik, and Igor search Brooklyn. Ani eventually learns from friends that Vanya is at her former strip club, where he is being entertained by Diamond, a rival dancer. They drag Vanya out of the club, but he is too intoxicated to listen to them, and the group is forced to wait outside the courthouse overnight. The annulment is dismissed since the marriage took place in Nevada.
At the airport, Ani introduces herself to Nikolai and Galina in broken Russian, but Galina rejects her. Conceding to his parents, Vanya coldly tells Ani their marriage must end while Galina orders everyone onto a plane to Las Vegas. Having not signed a prenuptial agreement, Ani pledges to file for a divorce settlement, but Galina threatens her and her family with financial ruin if she does not comply. Realizing Vanya's cowardice and his family's power, Ani signs the annulment papers. Igor suggests Vanya apologize to Ani, but Galina objects. Ani insults both Vanya and Galina before leaving, telling Galina that Vanya hates her and only got married to spite her.
Igor takes Ani back to New York to collect her belongings. At the mansion, she confronts Igor about their encounter the previous day, accusing him of assault and saying he would have raped her had they been alone, though Igor assures her that he had no intention of doing so. The next morning, Igor gives Ani the money Toros promised her and drives her home. In the car, he returns her wedding ring as a token of goodwill. Ani initiates sex with him but stops when he tries to kiss her; she breaks down and sobs in his arms.


== Cast ==


== Production ==

The director, Sean Baker, said Anora was inspired by a story from a friend about a Russian-American newlywed kidnapped for collateral. He was also inspired by his work in 2000 and 2001, when he edited wedding videos, including ones of Russian-Americans in New York. Baker said his intentions were towards "telling human stories, by telling stories that are hopefully universal [...] It's helping remove the stigma that's been applied to [sex work], that's always been applied to this livelihood." Baker hired Andrea Werhun, a Canadian writer and actress known for her 2018 memoir Modern Whore about her prior time as a sex worker, as a creative consultant.
Baker cast Mikey Madison after seeing her in Once Upon a Time in Hollywood (2019) and Scream (2022). He hired Madison without an audition. Madison learned Russian, visited strip clubs, 