Title: Pharmaceutical industry
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pharmaceutical_industry
Summary: The pharmaceutical industry is a medical industry that discovers, develops, produces, and markets pharmaceutical goods such as medications. Medications are then administered to (or self-administered by) patients for curing or preventing disease or for alleviating symptoms of illness or injury. 
Generic drugs are typically not protected by patents, whereas branded drugs are covered by patents. The industry's various subdivisions include distinct areas, such as manufacturing biologics and total synthesis. The industry is subject to a variety of laws and regulations that govern the patenting, efficacy testing, safety evaluation, and marketing of these drugs.
The global pharmaceutical market was valued at approximately US$1.48 trillion in 2022, reflecting steady growth from 2020 and continuing expansion despite the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. The sector showed a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 1.8% in 2021, including the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
In historical terms, the pharmaceutical industry, as an intellectual concept, arose in the middle to late 1800s in nation-states with developed economies such as Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Some businesses engaging in synthetic organic chemistry, such as several firms generating dyestuffs derived from coal tar on a large scale, were seeking out new applications for their artificial materials in terms of human health. This trend of increased capital investment occurred in tandem with the scholarly study of pathology as a field advancing significantly, and a variety of businesses set up cooperative relationships with academic laboratories evaluating human injury and disease. Examples of industrial companies with a pharmaceutical focus that have endured to this day after such distant beginnings include Bayer (based in Germany) and Pfizer (based in the U.S.).
The pharmaceutical industry has faced extensive criticism for its marketing practices, including undue influence on physicians through pharmaceutical sales representatives, biased continuing medical education, and disease mongering to expand markets. Pharmaceutical lobbying has made it one of the most powerful influences on health policy, particularly in the United States. There are documented cases of pharmaceutical fraud, including off-label promotion and kickbacks, resulting in multi-billion dollar settlements. Drug pricing continues to be a major issue, with many unable to afford essential prescription drugs. Regulatory agencies like the FDA have been accused of being too lenient due to revolving doors with industry. During the COVID-19 pandemic, major pharmaceutical companies received public funding while retaining intellectual property rights, prompting calls for greater transparency and access.

Title: Breakthrough T1D
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_T1D
Summary: Breakthrough T1D (formerly JDRF) is a type 1 diabetes (T1D) research and advocacy organization.
Breakthrough T1D funds research for the development of new therapies and treatments for type 1 diabetes. The organization advocates for federal research funding toward new technologies and treatments and works with regulatory and policy officials to disburse funds. Breakthrough T1D also has partnerships with academia, industry, and clinicians to accelerate research into potential cures for T1D.
The organization has been described as "the leading global organization funding T1D research".

Title: Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_Prize_in_Life_Sciences
Summary: The Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences is a scientific award, funded by internet entrepreneurs Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan of Facebook; Sergey Brin of Google; entrepreneur and venture capitalist Yuri Milner; and Anne Wojcicki, one of the founders of the genetics company 23andMe.
The award of $3 million, the largest award in the sciences, is given to researchers who have made discoveries that extend human life. The Prize is awarded annually, beginning in 2013, with six awards given in each subsequent year. Winners are expected to give public lectures and form the committee to decide future winners. The ceremony takes place in the San Francisco Bay Area, with the symposiums alternating between University of California, Berkeley, University of California, San Francisco, and Stanford University.

Title: List of drugs granted breakthrough therapy designation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_drugs_granted_breakthrough_therapy_designation
Summary: Drugs granted breakthrough therapy designation (BTD) by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Drugs may be listed more than once since breakthrough therapy can be awarded for multiple indications.

Title: The Chatterjee Group Centres for Research and Education in Science and Technology
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Chatterjee_Group_Centres_for_Research_and_Education_in_Science_and_Technology
Summary: The Chatterjee Group Centres for Research and Education in Science and Technology or simply TCG CREST, is a multiple cross-disciplinary educational research centre deemed-to-be-university located in Salt Lake’s Sector V, West Bengal, India. It has five schools. It was established in 2020 and is one of the first research-driven private university in India. The institute was established with considerable expectations regarding its academic and research potential. However, its subsequent development has been criticized for falling short of these initial expectations. Some observers have attributed this to concerns regarding perceived exessive nepotism in the appointment during its formative years, as well as the absence of a clearly defined organizational structure and institutional framework.