Title: Sakha Republic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sakha_Republic
Summary: Sakha, officially the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), is a republic of Russia, and the largest federal subject of Russia by area. It is located in the Russian Far East, along the Arctic Ocean, with a population of one million. Sakha comprises half of the area of its governing Far Eastern Federal District, and is the world's largest country subdivision, covering over 3,083,523 square kilometers (1,190,555 sq mi). Yakutsk, which is the world's coldest major city, is its capital and largest city.
The republic has a reputation for an extreme and severe climate, with the second lowest temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere being recorded in Verkhoyansk and Oymyakon (second only to Summit Camp, Greenland), and regular winter averages commonly dipping below −35 °C (−31 °F) in Yakutsk. The hypercontinental tendencies also result in warm summers for much of the republic.
Sakha was first home to hunting-gathering and reindeer-herding Tungusic and Paleosiberian peoples such as the Evenks and Yukaghir. Migrating from the area around Lake Baikal, the Turkic Sakha people first migrated to the middle Lena River sometime between the 9th and 16th centuries, likely in several waves, bringing the pastoral economic system of Inner Asia with them.
The Russians colonised and incorporated the area as the Yakutsk Oblast into the Tsardom of Russia in the early-mid 17th century, obliging the indigenous peoples of the area to pay fur tribute. While the initial period following the Russian conquest saw the Sakha population drop by 70%, the Imperial period also saw the expansion of the native Yakuts from the middle Lena along the Vilyuy River to the north and the east displacing other indigenous groups. Yakutia saw some of the last battles of the Russian Civil War, and the Bolshevik authorities reorganised Yakutsk Oblast into the autonomous Yakut ASSR in 1922. The Soviet era saw the migration of many Slavs, specifically Russians and Ukrainians, into the area.
On 27 September 1990, the area became the Yakutskaya-Sakha Soviet Socialist Republic, and on 27 December 1991, it became the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia).

Title: Amur–Yakutsk Mainline
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amur%E2%80%93Yakutsk_Mainline
Summary: The Amur–Yakutsk Mainline (Russian: Амуро-Якутская магистраль, Amuro-Yakutskaya Magistral), abbreviated to AYaM (Russian АЯM), is a partially complete railway in eastern Russia, linking the Trans–Siberian Railway and Baikal–Amur Mainline with the Sakha Republic.
Passenger services on the line go from Tynda to the town of Nizhny Bestyakh, opposite the river from Yakutsk. In November 2011, construction of the railway reached Nizhny Bestyakh. The railway via Nizhny Bestyakh is planned in the long term to form the start of a railway towards Magadan and possibly even across the Bering Strait.

Title: Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_Soviet_Federative_Socialist_Republic
Summary: The Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (Russian SFSR) was a communist state from 1917 to 1922, and afterwards the largest and most populous constituent republic of the Soviet Union (USSR) from 1922 to 1991, until becoming a sovereign part of the Soviet Union with priority of Russian laws over Union-level legislation in 1990 and 1991, the last two years of the existence of the USSR. The Russian SFSR was composed of sixteen smaller constituent units of autonomous republics, five autonomous oblasts, ten autonomous okrugs, six krais and forty oblasts. Russians formed the largest ethnic group. The capital of the Russian SFSR and the USSR as a whole was Moscow and the other major urban centers included Leningrad (Petrograd until 1924), Stalingrad (Volgograd after 1961), Novosibirsk, Sverdlovsk, Gorky and Kuybyshev.
On 7 November 1917 [O.S. 25 October], as a result of the October Revolution, the Russian Soviet Republic was proclaimed as a sovereign state and the world's first communist state guided by communist ideology. The first constitution was adopted in 1918. In 1922, the Russian SFSR signed a treaty officially creating the USSR. On 12 June 1990, the Congress of People's Deputies adopted the Declaration of State Sovereignty. On 12 June 1991, Boris Yeltsin, supported by the Democratic Russia pro-reform movement, was elected the first and only President of the RSFSR, a post that would later become the Presidency of the Russian Federation. The August 1991 Soviet coup d'état attempt in Moscow with the temporary brief internment of President Mikhail Gorbachev destabilised the Soviet Union. Following these events, Gorbachev lost all his remaining power, with Yeltsin superseding him as the pre-eminent figure in the country. On 8 December 1991, the heads of Russia, Ukraine and Belarus signed the Belovezha Accords declaring dissolution of the USSR and established the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) as a loose replacement confederation. On 12 December, the agreement was ratified by the Supreme Soviet (the parliament of the Russian SFSR); therefore the Russian SFSR had renounced the Treaty on the Creation of the USSR and de facto declared Russia's independence from the USSR itself and the ties with the other Soviet republics.
On 25 December 1991, following the resignation of Gorbachev as President of the Soviet Union, the Russian SFSR was renamed the Russian Federation. The next day, the USSR was self-dissolved by the Soviet of the Republics on 26 December, which by that time was the only functioning parliamentary chamber of the All-Union Supreme Soviet. After the dissolution, Russia took full responsibility for all the rights and obligations of the USSR under the Charter of the United Nations, including the financial obligations. As such, Russia assumed the Soviet Union's UN membership and permanent membership on the Security Council, nuclear stockpile and the control over the armed forces; Soviet embassies abroad became Russian embassies.
The 1978 constitution of the Russian SFSR was amended several times to reflect the transition to democracy, private property and market economy. The new Russian constitution, coming into effect on 25 December 1993 after a constitutional crisis, completely abolished the Soviet form of government and replaced it with a semi-presidential system. The economy of Russia became heavily industrialised, accounting for about two-thirds of the electricity produced in the USSR. By 1961, it was the third largest producer of petroleum due to new discoveries in the Volga-Urals region and Siberia. In 1974, there were 475 institutes of higher education in the republic providing education in 47 languages to some 23,941,000 students. A network of territorially organised public-health services provided health care. The economy began to be liberalised starting in 1985 under Gorbachev's "perestroika" restructuring policies, including the introduction of non-state owned enterprises (e.g. cooperatives).

Title: Lena Bridge
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lena_Bridge
Summary: The Lena Bridge (Russian: Мост через р. Лену, lit. 'Bridge over the Lena River') is a cable-stayed bridge under construction in the Sakha Republic in Russia. The bridge will cross the Lena River, connecting the A331 highway to the Lena and Kolyma highways and linking the city of Yakutsk to the rest of the Russian road network. Upon completion, the bridge will establish a year-round road connection to Yakutsk and link the Russian Far East to the ports of the Sea of Okhotsk, developing Russia's northern economic axis.

Title: Miss Universe 2025
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miss_Universe_2025
Summary: Miss Universe 2025 was the 74th Miss Universe pageant, held at the Impact Challenger Hall in Pak Kret, Nonthaburi, Thailand, on 21 November 2025. 
It was hosted by American standup comedian and actor Steve Byrne, with Miss Universe 1993 Dayanara Torres and Miss Universe 2022 R'Bonney Gabriel as commentary hosts. As it was held during the one-year mourning period after the death of Sirikit, the former queen consort of Thailand, some of the pageant's events were modified in accordance to government recommendations.
The pageant attracted some controversy, including the conduct of Thai pageant organizer, Nawat Itsaragrisil, in pageant events, and legal disputes with the licensee Miss Universe Thailand. A number of judges left the final, including Omar Harfouch, who criticized the selection of the semifinalists and the eventual outcome.
At the end of the event, Victoria Kjær Theilvig of Denmark crowned Fátima Bosch of Mexico as her successor, marking the country's fourth title in the pageant.