Title: Global Positioning System
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_Positioning_System
Summary: The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a satellite-based hyperbolic navigation system owned by the United States Space Force and operated by Mission Delta 31. It is one of the global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) that provide geolocation and time information to a GPS receiver anywhere on or near the Earth where signal quality permits. It does not require the user to transmit any data, and operates independently of any telephone or Internet reception, though these technologies can enhance the usefulness of the GPS positioning information. It provides critical positioning capabilities to military, civil, and commercial users around the world. Although the United States government created, controls, and maintains GPS, it is freely accessible to anyone with a GPS receiver.

Title: Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polar_Satellite_Launch_Vehicle
Summary: The Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) is an expendable medium-lift launch vehicle designed and operated by ISRO. It was developed to allow India to launch its Indian Remote Sensing (IRS) satellites into Sun-synchronous orbits, a service that was, until the advent of the PSLV in 1993, only commercially available from Russia. PSLV can also launch small size satellites into Geostationary Transfer Orbit (GTO).
Some notable payloads launched by PSLV include India's first lunar probe Chandrayaan-1, India's first interplanetary mission, Mars Orbiter Mission (Mangalyaan), India's first space observatory, Astrosat and India's first Solar mission, Aditya-L1.
PSLV has gained credibility as a leading provider of rideshare services for small satellites, owing to its numerous multi-satellite deployment campaigns with auxiliary payloads, usually ride-sharing along with an Indian primary payload. As of December 2024, PSLV has launched 360 foreign satellites from 36 countries and European Union. Most notable among these was the launch of PSLV-C37 on 15 February 2017, successfully deploying 104 satellites in Sun-synchronous orbit, tripling the previous record held by Russia for the highest number of satellites sent to space on a single launch, until 24 January 2021, when SpaceX launched the Transporter-1 mission on a Falcon 9 rocket carrying 143 satellites into orbit.
Payloads can be integrated in tandem configuration employing a Dual Launch Adapter. Smaller payloads are also placed on equipment deck and customized payload adapters.

Title: HawkEye 360
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HawkEye_360
Summary: HawkEye 360 is an American geospatial analytics company headquartered in Herndon, Virginia.  The company specializes in the collection and analysis of radio frequency (RF) signal location data using a constellation of satellites.

Title: List of Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy launches (2020–2022)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Falcon_9_and_Falcon_Heavy_launches_(2020%E2%80%932022)
Summary: From January 2020, to the end of 2022, Falcon 9 was launched 117 times, all successful, and landed boosters successfully on 111 of those flights. Falcon Heavy was launched once and was successful, including landing of the mission's two side boosters.

Title: List of Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy launches (2024)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Falcon_9_and_Falcon_Heavy_launches_(2024)
Summary: SpaceX conducted 134 Falcon family vehicle launches (132 Falcon 9 and 2 Falcon Heavy) in 2024, including the failed Starlink Group 9-3 mission. The Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy flights accounted for more than half of the 263 orbital launch attempts worldwide in 2024. It again broke the global single-year launch record of 98 launches in a year (set by SpaceX in the previous year with 96 Falcon and 2 Starship launches).
The company had set initial launch targets for the year of approximately 144 launches, or an average of 12 per month, accounting for potential delays due to weather, technical issues, and scheduled maintenance. However, subsequent statements from SpaceX leadership indicated a potential increase to 148 launches, an average of 13 launches per month. Later in November 2024, due to launch or recovery failures leading to several mishap investigations and delays, SpaceX leadership lowered the year's launch projections to approximately 136 launches in the year, which was subsequently missed by two launches.
The company's payload delivery capacity also rose, with more than 1,498 tonnes (3,303,000 lb) (only 85.5% of the launches were reported launch masses) sent to orbit.