Title: Paul Thomas Anderson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Thomas_Anderson
Summary: Paul Thomas Anderson (born June 26, 1970), also known by his initials PTA, is an American filmmaker. Often described as one of the preeminent filmmakers of his generation, he is the recipient of numerous accolades, including three Academy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards and four BAFTAs, as well as a nomination for a Grammy Award. He is the only person to have won the Academy Award for Best Director and directorial prizes at Europe's three major film festivals: Cannes Film Festival, Venice Film Festival, and the Berlin International Film Festival. In addition to those accolades, he won the Golden Bear at the Berlin International Film Festival.
Many of Anderson's films are psychological dramas characterized by depictions of desperate characters and explorations of dysfunctional families, alienation, loneliness, and redemption, alongside a bold visual style that uses constantly moving cameras and long takes. After his directorial debut, Hard Eight (1996), Anderson had critical and commercial success with Boogie Nights (1997), and received further accolades with Magnolia (1999) and Punch-Drunk Love (2002).
There Will Be Blood (2007), Anderson's fifth film, is regarded as one of the greatest films of the 21st century. It was followed by The Master (2012) and Inherent Vice (2014), an adaptation of the 2009 novel by Thomas Pynchon. Anderson's next three films, Phantom Thread (2017), Licorice Pizza (2021) and One Battle After Another (2025) were all nominated for the Academy Awards for Best Picture and Best Director, while the last earned him wins for both and Best Adapted Screenplay and became his highest-grossing film.
Anderson is noted for his collaborations with the cinematographer Robert Elswit, the costume designer Mark Bridges, the composers Jon Brion and Jonny Greenwood, and actors including Philip Seymour Hoffman, Daniel Day-Lewis, John C. Reilly, and Joaquin Phoenix. He has directed music videos for artists including Fiona Apple, Haim, Aimee Mann, Joanna Newsom, Michael Penn, Radiohead, and the Smile. He also directed a 2015 documentary about Greenwood's album Junun, and the short music film Anima (2019) for the Radiohead singer Thom Yorke.

Title: Paul W. S. Anderson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_W._S._Anderson
Summary: Paul William Scott Anderson (born 4 March 1965) is an English filmmaker who is best known for his science fiction films and video game adaptations. Anderson made his feature-length directorial debut with the independent film Shopping (1994). In 1992, he and producer Jeremy Bolt co-founded Impact Pictures, under which most of his films have been produced. He found commercial success with his second film, Mortal Kombat (1995), based on the namesake video games. He came to wider attention for his work on the first, fourth, fifth and sixth films of the Resident Evil series (2002–2016), based on the video games of the same name; his entries collectively grossed over $1 billion worldwide.
Anderson's other films include Event Horizon (1997), Alien vs. Predator (2004), Death Race (2008), and Pompeii (2014). Event Horizon was initially a critical and commercial failure, but has since been reassessed as an influential cult classic and often appears on lists of the best horror films of all time.

Title: Paul Anderson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Anderson
Summary: Paul Anderson may refer to:

Title: The Dirk Diggler Story
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dirk_Diggler_Story
Summary: The Dirk Diggler Story is a 1988 mockumentary short film written and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson. It follows the rise and fall of Dirk Diggler, a fictional well-endowed male porn star. The character was modeled on American porn actor John Holmes. The film was later expanded into Anderson's 1997 film Boogie Nights.

Title: Lee & Penny Anderson Arena
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_%26_Penny_Anderson_Arena
Summary: Lee & Penny Anderson Arena is an indoor arena on the campus of the University of St. Thomas in Saint Paul, Minnesota. Completed in 2025, the facility is the home arena of the St. Thomas basketball and hockey teams.