Title: Guinness World Records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guinness_World_Records
Summary: Guinness World Records (), known from its inception in 1955 until 1999 as The Guinness Book of Records and in previous United States editions as The Guinness Book of World Records, is a British reference book published annually, listing world records both of human achievements and the extremes of the natural world. Sir Hugh Beaver created the concept in order to settle arguments debated in pubs, and twin brothers Norris and Ross McWhirter co-founded the book in London in late August 1955.
The first edition topped the bestseller list in the United Kingdom by Christmas 1955. The following year the book was launched internationally, and as of the 2026 edition, it is now in its 71st year of publication, published in 100 countries and 40 languages, and maintains over 53,000 records in its database.
The international franchise has extended beyond print to include television series and museums. The popularity of the franchise has resulted in Guinness World Records becoming the primary international source for cataloguing and verification of a huge number of world records. The organisation employs record adjudicators to verify the authenticity of the setting and breaking of records.
Following a series of owners, the franchise has been owned by the Jim Pattison Group since 2008, with its headquarters moved to South Quay Plaza, Canary Wharf, London, in 2017. Since 2008, Guinness World Records has orientated its business model away from selling books, and towards creating new world records as publicity exercises for individuals and organisations, which has attracted criticism.

Title: List of world records in chess
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_world_records_in_chess
Summary: The world records in chess listed here are achieved in organized tournament, match, or simultaneous exhibition play.

Title: World Snooker Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Snooker_Championship
Summary: The World Snooker Championship is the most prestigious tournament in professional snooker. The latest edition of the event had a total prize pool of £2,395,000, including £500,000 for the winner. It is now one of the three tournaments (together with the UK Championship and the invitational Masters) that make up snooker's Triple Crown Series. The reigning world champion is Wu Yize.
The event was first held in 1927 as a professional competition organised by the Billiards Association and Control Council, and Joe Davis won the title. In 1952, a rival tournament called the World Professional Match-play Championship was introduced by the Professional Billiards Players' Association to compete with the 1952 World Snooker Championship, which had only two entrants. The World Professional Match-play Championship was held as the world championship for snooker until 1957. From 1964 to 1968, the event was played using a challenge format, where the current champion would be challenged by another player. John Pulman won all seven challenge matches.

Title: List of Formula One driver records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Formula_One_driver_records
Summary: The World Championship of Drivers has been held since 1950. Driver records listed here include all rounds which formed part of the World Championship since 1950: this includes the Indianapolis 500 from 1950–1960 (although it was not run to Formula One rules), and the 1952 and 1953 World Championship Grands Prix (which were run to Formula Two rules). Formula One races that were not qualification rounds for the World Championship are not included, and sprints are only included when specified.

Title: Kabaddi World Cup (World Kabaddi)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kabaddi_World_Cup_(World_Kabaddi)
Summary: The Kabaddi World Cup, is an indoor international kabaddi tournament conducted by the World Kabaddi. It follows the standard style (indoors on a rectangular court) and is contested by both men's and women's national teams. The format involves a round-robin tournament followed by a knockout stage.
The World Cup has been held once (in 2019) with another scheduled for 2025. Unlike its IKF counterpart, all World Cups of World Kabaddi were held outside India to globalise the event. In 2019, both the men's and women's competitions were won by the Indian teams.