Title: European Cup and UEFA Champions League records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Cup_and_UEFA_Champions_League_records_and_statistics
Summary: This page details statistics of all seasons of the European Cup and Champions League. These statistics do not include the qualifying rounds of the UEFA Champions League, unless otherwise noted.

Title: List of footballers with 500 or more goals
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_footballers_with_500_or_more_goals
Summary: In top-level association football competitions, 27 players have scored 500 or more goals in both club and international football, according to research by the IFFHS, first published in 2007. Taking into account competitions of all levels, 82 players have reached the milestone, according to the RSSSF. FIFA, the international governing body of football, has never released a list detailing the highest goalscorers and does not keep official records. It is challenging for statisticians and media to agree on which goals should be counted, with debate over whether to include those scored in friendlies, regional competitions, and even matches taking place during wartime. Hungarian Imre Schlosser is generally recognised as the first to reach the 500-goal mark, doing so in 1927 shortly before his retirement. Nine players have accomplished the feat at a single club: Josef Bican (Slavia Prague), Jimmy Jones (Glenavon), Jimmy McGrory (Celtic), Joe Bambrick (Linfield), Lionel Messi (Barcelona), Gerd Müller (Bayern Munich), Pelé (Santos), Fernando Peyroteo (Sporting Lisbon), and Uwe Seeler (Hamburg). Of these nine, Messi scored the most, with 672 goals between his debut in 2004 and his departure in 2021.
In 2020, FIFA recognised Josef Bican, an Austrian-Czech dual international who played between the 1930s and the 1950s, as the record scorer with an estimated 805 goals, although CNN, the BBC, France 24, and O Jogo all acknowledge that Bican's tally includes goals scored for reserve teams and in unofficial international matches. UEFA, the governing body for European football, ranks him as the leading all-time goalscorer in European top-flight leagues with 518 goals, narrowly ahead of Hungarian Ferenc Puskás. RSSSF credits Bican with 948 goals, a tally which includes goals scored in winter tournaments, as well as when selected to represent regional and city teams, and the Football Association of the Czech Republic claims a total of 821. Spanish newspapers Marca and Sport state that both Bican and Pelé scored 762 goals. Bican once walked out of a gala held in his honour by the IFFHS after the organisation had excluded war-time goals from his tally, although it later recognised the 229 goals he had scored during the period.

Media outlets like Sky Sports, ESPN, and Globo Esporte argue that for Pelé and his era, friendly matches were important and their goals should count, while journalist Hugh McIlvanney called them "profit-making excursions" with little "relevance to Pelé's reality", and Jonathan Liew said many friendlies were "against up-country teams or down-at-heel invitational sides". When Argentinian forward Lionel Messi was reported to have broken the record for most goals at a single club (644 for Barcelona), Pelé's former club Santos denied it, saying 448 of Pelé's friendly goals had been uncounted, arguing many were against "the best teams of all time", a point Pelé supported by updating his tally to 1,283 on Instagram. Barcelona responded that because Bican, Pelé, Erwin Helmchen, and Abe Lenstra scored mostly in leagues below national level, those goals should not count, and goals from wartime matches, lower tiers, and regional divisions by players like Bican, Ferenc Deák, Puskás, Seeler, Müller, Túlio Maravilha, and Robert Lewandowski are also disputed.
In 2021, Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo was reported to have broken the record by scoring his 760th goal, although it was widely accepted as impossible to confirm with certainty since stats from earlier eras are often disputed, as observed by journalist Jonathan Wilson and Corriere dello Sport editor Ivan Zazzaroni, who said German striker Helmchen may have scored 981 goals. Ronaldo said "the world has changed since then and football has changed as well, but this doesn't mean we can just erase history according to our interests." Other claims exist; Guinness World Records credits Pelé with the "most career goals" at 1,279, and Brazilian striker Romário claimed his 1,000th goal in 2007 but later admitted it included friendlies; they are reported to have scored 767 and 772 goals respectively, with Pelé's total including one goal for the military team and nine for the state team of São Paulo at the State Team Championship. The Encyclopædia Britannica observes that Brazilian Arthur Friedenreich is "officially recognised" by FIFA to have scored 1,329 goals, although there is little evidence. In March 2022, Ronaldo surpassed Bican's estimated 805 goals. In 2024, Ronaldo stated his intent to become the first player to reach 1,000 career goals before his retirement, a feat regularly questioned by media.

Title: List of Manchester City F.C. records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Manchester_City_F.C._records_and_statistics
Summary: This article lists various statistics related to Manchester City Football Club.

Title: UEFA Euro 2020
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Euro_2020
Summary: The 2020 UEFA European Football Championship, commonly referred to as UEFA Euro 2020 or simply Euro 2020, was the 16th UEFA European Championship, the quadrennial international men's football championship of Europe organised by the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA). To celebrate the 60th anniversary of the European Championship competition, UEFA president Michel Platini declared that the tournament would be hosted in several nations as a "romantic" one-off event, with 11 cities in 11 UEFA countries each providing venues for the tournament, making it the second senior international tournament in history after the 2007 AFC Asian Cup to have more than two nations co-hosting it.
Portugal were the defending champions, but were eliminated in the round of 16 by Belgium. Italy won their second European Championship title by beating England on penalties in the final following a 1–1 draw after extra time. The win came exactly on the 39th anniversary of Italy's 1982 FIFA World Cup final victory over West Germany.
The tournament was originally intended to be played between 12 June and 12 July 2020. Due to COVID-19 restrictions during that year, the tournament was postponed to June and July 2021, while retaining the name UEFA Euro 2020 and host venues. Alongside special rules regarding COVID-19 restrictions, UEFA also allowed two extra substitutions and implemented video assistant referee (VAR) for the first time. Initially, there were 13 venues chosen for the tournament but two were later dropped. Brussels was dropped in December 2017 after the city's Eurostadium was abandoned, while Dublin was dropped in April 2021 because there was no guarantee that spectators could attend. Spain originally intended to use Bilbao as a host venue but later changed it to Seville to allow for spectators at matches. UEFA chose Stadio Olimpico in Rome to host the opening match between Italy and Turkey, while Wembley Stadium in London was selected as a semi-final and final venue for the second time, following the 1996 tournament at the original stadium of the same name.
The tournament was well received by fans and commentators, with the most goals per game in a European Championship since the introduction of the group stage, and only two goalless games. The refereeing style was also praised, with a conservative use of VAR and quick decisions made on the pitch.

Title: UEFA Euro 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Euro_2024
Summary: The 2024 UEFA European Football Championship, commonly referred to as UEFA Euro 2024 or simply Euro 2024, was the 17th UEFA European Championship, the quadrennial international football championship organised by UEFA for the European men's national teams of their member associations. Germany hosted the tournament, which took place from 14 June to 14 July 2024. The tournament involved 24 teams. 
It was the third time that European Championship matches were played on German territory and the second time in reunified Germany, as West Germany hosted the 1988 tournament, and four matches of the multi-national Euro 2020 were played in Munich. It was the first time the competition was held in what was formerly East Germany, with Leipzig as a host city, as well as the first major tournament since the 2006 FIFA World Cup that Germany served as a solo host nation. The tournament returned to its usual four-year cycle after the 2020 edition was postponed to 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Georgia made their tournament debut. Italy were the defending champion, having won the 2020 final against England on penalties, but failed to defend the title after being eliminated by Switzerland in the round of 16. Host nation Germany were eliminated by Spain in the quarter-finals; Spain went on to win the tournament for a record fourth time after defeating England 2–1 in the final.