Title: Masters Tournament
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Masters_Tournament
Summary: The Masters Tournament (usually referred to as simply the Masters, or as the U.S. Masters outside North America) is one of the four men's major championships in professional golf. Scheduled for the first full week in April, the Masters is the first major golf tournament of the year. Unlike the other major tournaments which change host venues with each tournament, the Masters is always held at the same host venue: Augusta National Golf Club, a private course in the city of Augusta, Georgia.
Amateur golf champion Bobby Jones and investment banker Clifford Roberts founded the tournament. After his grand slam in 1930, Jones acquired a former plant nursery and co-designed Augusta National with course architect Alister MacKenzie. First played in 1934 as the "Augusta National Invitation Tournament", the Masters is an official money event on the PGA Tour, the European Tour, and the Japan Golf Tour. The field of players is smaller than those of the other major championships because it is an invitational event, held by the Augusta National Golf Club.
The tournament has a number of traditions. Since the 1949 Masters, a green jacket (specifically Pantone 342C, "Augusta Green") has been awarded to the champion, who must return it to the clubhouse one year after his victory, although it remains his personal property and is stored with other champions' jackets in a specially designated cloakroom. In most instances, only a first-time and reigning champion may remove his jacket from the club grounds. A golfer who wins the event multiple times uses the same green jacket awarded upon his initial win unless he needs to be re-fitted with a new jacket. The Champions Dinner, inaugurated by Ben Hogan at the 1952 Masters, is held on the Tuesday before each Masters and is open only to past champions and certain board members of the Augusta National Golf Club. Beginning in 1963, distinguished golfers, usually past champions, have hit an honorary tee shot on the morning of the first round to commence play. These have included Fred McLeod, Jock Hutchinson, Gene Sarazen, Sam Snead, Byron Nelson, Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player, Lee Elder, and Tom Watson. Since 1960, a semi-social contest on the Par 3 course has been played on Wednesday, the day before the first round.
Nicklaus has the most Masters wins, with six between 1963 and 1986. Tiger Woods won five between 1997 and 2019. Palmer won four between 1958 and 1964. Five have won three titles at Augusta: Jimmy Demaret, Sam Snead, Gary Player, Nick Faldo, and Phil Mickelson. Gary Player, from South Africa, was the first non-American player to win the tournament, in 1961; the second was Seve Ballesteros of Spain, the champion in 1980 and 1983.
The Augusta National course first opened in 1933 and has been modified many times by different architects. Among the changes: greens have been reshaped and, on occasion, entirely re-designed, bunkers have been added, water hazards have been extended, new tee boxes have been built, hundreds of trees have been planted, and several mounds have been installed.

Title: List of Masters Tournament champions
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Masters_Tournament_champions
Summary: The Masters Tournament is a golf competition that was established in 1934, with Horton Smith winning the inaugural tournament. The Masters is the first of four major championships to be played each year, with the final round of the Masters always being scheduled for the second Sunday in April. The Masters is the only one of the four majors to use the same course every year: the Augusta National Golf Club. Masters champions are automatically invited to play in the other three majors (the U.S. Open, the Open Championship (British Open), and the PGA Championship) for the next five years, and earn a lifetime invitation to the Masters. They also receive membership on the PGA Tour for the following five seasons and invitations to the Players Championship for the five years following their victory. The champion also receives the "Green Jacket", the first one being won by Sam Snead in 1949. The champion takes the jacket home for a year and returns it thereafter. A multiple-time champion will only have one jacket unless his size changes dramatically.
Jack Nicklaus holds the record for the most Masters victories, winning the tournament six times during his career. Nicklaus is also the oldest winner of the Masters: he was 46 years 82 days old when he won in 1986. Nicklaus, Nick Faldo, Tiger Woods, and Rory McIlroy co-hold the record for most consecutive victories with two. Woods was the youngest winner of the Masters, 21 years 104 days old when he won in 1997. Woods also set the record for the widest winning margin (12 strokes). The lowest winning score, with 268, 20-under-par, was scored by Dustin Johnson in 2020.
The highest winning score of 289 (+1) was originally set by Sam Snead in 1954, it was equalled by Jack Burke Jr. in 1956, and Zach Johnson in 2007. Six golfers have won the Masters wire-to-wire: Craig Wood in 1941, Arnold Palmer in 1960, Nicklaus in 1972, Raymond Floyd in 1976, Jordan Spieth in 2015, and Rory McIlroy in 2026. Other players have led wire-to-wire if ties after a round are included, most recently Dustin Johnson in the 2020 Masters Tournament. Rory McIlroy is the current champion. He won the 2026 Masters Tournament wire-to-wire with a final score of (−12).

Title: List of ATP Big Titles singles champions
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ATP_Big_Titles_singles_champions
Summary: In men's tennis, the Grand Slam tournaments, the Masters tournaments, and the year-end championships are considered the top-tier events of the annual ATP Tour calendar, in addition to the quadrennial Olympics. They are collectively known as the 'Big Titles'. The ATP defined the mandatory events (Slams, Masters and YEC) as follows

They are the biggest tournaments in our sport, where participation is mandatory, entry is reserved for the world's best and success is rewarded with fame and a rich haul of points and prize money.
This article lists the respective singles champions of those events since the inception of the ATP Tour in 1990.
Note: By setting 1990 as the cut-off point, this list excludes many notable champions in top level tournaments from previous years. The Grand Slam tournaments and the year-end championships have been held since 1877 and 1970 respectively. The Olympics was first played in 1896, interrupted after 1924 and later resumed in 1988. High category tournaments equivalent to the Masters Series like the Grand Prix Super Series existed before the ATP Tour was introduced. There were also the professional Majors, the World Championship Series and the amateur Majors (WHCC, WCCC) before the Open Era.

Title: 2024 Masters Tournament
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Masters_Tournament
Summary: The 2024 Masters Tournament was the 88th edition of the Masters Tournament and the first of the men's four major golf championships held in 2024. The tournament was played from April 11–14 at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, United States. Scottie Scheffler won his second Masters and major, four strokes ahead of runner-up Ludvig Åberg, who was playing in his first major. Scheffler became the fourth-youngest two-time winner of the tournament and the second player, after Tiger Woods in 2001, to win both the Masters and The Players Championship in the same calendar year.

Title: 2024 China Masters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_China_Masters
Summary: The 2024 China Masters  (officially known as the Li-Ning China Masters 2024 for sponsorship reasons) was a badminton tournament that took place at Shenzhen Arena in Shenzhen, China, from 19 to 24 November 2024, and featured a total prize pool of $1,150,000.