Title: Princess Beatrice
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princess_Beatrice
Summary: Princess Beatrice, Mrs Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi (Beatrice Elizabeth Mary; born 8 August 1988), is a member of the British royal family. She is the elder daughter of Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor and Sarah Ferguson, and a niece of King Charles III. Born fifth in the line of succession to the British throne, she is ninth as of 2026.
Beatrice was educated at St George's School, Ascot, before reading history at Goldsmiths, University of London, where she graduated with a BA degree. She has held roles at the Foreign Office and Sony Pictures, and currently serves as Vice-President of Strategic Partnerships at the software company Afiniti. She supports several charitable organisations, including the Teenage Cancer Trust and Outward Bound. 
In 2020, Beatrice married Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi, an English-born property developer with descent from Italian nobility. They have two daughters.

Title: Nicholas Hoult
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicholas_Hoult
Summary: Nicholas Caradoc Hoult (; born 7 December 1989) is an English actor. His filmography includes work in big-budget mainstream productions and starring roles in independent projects in American and British films. His accolades include nominations for a British Academy Film Award, two Golden Globe Awards, and a Primetime Emmy Award. He was included in Forbes 30 Under 30 in 2012.
Hoult performed in local theatre productions as a child. He made his screen debut aged six, in the 1996 film Intimate Relations, and appeared in several television programmes. His breakthrough came with his role in the 2002 comedy-drama About a Boy. He achieved wider recognition for his performance as Tony Stonem in the E4 teen series Skins (2007–2008). His transition to adult roles began with the 2009 drama A Single Man and the fantasy film Clash of the Titans (2010). He played the mutant Hank McCoy / Beast in the 2011 superhero film X-Men: First Class, a role he reprised in later instalments of the film series.
Hoult played the title role in the adventure film Jack the Giant Slayer (2013) and the zombie lead in the Romeo and Juliet homage comedy Warm Bodies (2013). He had supporting roles in the action film Mad Max: Fury Road (2015), portrayed various historical figures such as Robert Harley in the black comedy The Favourite (2018) and Peter III, Emperor of Russia in the Hulu comedy-drama series The Great (2020–2023). His work on The Great earned him nominations for two Golden Globes and a Primetime Emmy Award. He has since starred in the black comedy The Menu (2022), the courtroom drama Juror #2 (2024), the horror film Nosferatu (2024), and the superhero film Superman (2025).
Outside of film, Hoult voiced Elliot in the 2010 action role-playing game Fable III and appeared in the 2009 West End play New Boy. He supports the charitable organisations Teenage Cancer Trust and Christian Aid. He is also a trained racing driver, competing in the Ferrari Challenge racing series.

Title: Peter Overton
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Overton
Summary: Peter John Overton,  (born 5 April 1966) is an Australian television journalist and news presenter.
He is currently presenter on Nine News Sydney. Overton also presently serves as a specialist reserve public affairs officer in the Royal Australian Air Force, holding the rank of Wing commander.

Title: Alice Roberts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Roberts
Summary: Alice May Roberts  (born 19 May 1973) is a British academic, anatomist, archaeologist, TV presenter and author. Since 2012 she has been professor of Public Engagement in Science at the University of Birmingham. She was president of the charity Humanists UK from January 2019 to May 2022, and is now a vice-president of the organisation.

Title: Jeff Leiper
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeff_Leiper
Summary: Jeffrey Leiper (born March 8, 1970) is the current Ottawa city councillor for Kitchissippi Ward. He was first elected in the 2014 Ottawa municipal election, defeating the incumbent Katherine Hobbs.