Title: Formula One
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formula_One
Summary: Formula One (F1) is the highest class of worldwide racing for open-wheel, single-seater formula racing cars run by the Formula One Group and sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The FIA Formula One World Championship has been one of the world's premier forms of motorsport since its inaugural running in 1950 and is often considered to be the pinnacle of motorsport. The word formula in the name refers to the set of rules all participant cars must follow. A Formula One season consists of a series of races, known as Grands Prix. Grands Prix take place in multiple countries and continents on either purpose-built circuits or closed roads, as street circuits.
A points scoring system is used at Grands Prix to determine two annual World Championships: one for the drivers, and one for the constructors—now synonymous with teams. Each driver must hold a valid Super Licence, the highest class of racing licence the FIA issues, and the races must be held on Grade One tracks, the highest grade rating the FIA issues for circuits.
The commercial rights to F1 are leased to Liberty Media Corporation, acquired in 2017 for an estimated $8 billion, previously owned by British business magnate Bernie Ecclestone. The new ownership added five Grands Prix to the calendar: Miami, Las Vegas, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Dutch.
Formula One cars are the world's fastest regulated road-course racing cars, owing to high cornering speeds achieved by generating large amounts of aerodynamic downforce, most of which is generated by front and rear wings, as well as underbody tunnels. The cars depend on electronics, aerodynamics, suspension, and tyres. Traction control, launch control, automatic shifting, and other electronic driving aids were first banned in 1994. They were briefly reintroduced in 2001 but were banned once more in 2004 and later 2008.
The cost cap as of the 2026 season stands at US$215 million, but the actual total cost of running an F1 team often exceeds that due to exclusions outside the cost cap. It is because of this that Formula One's financial and political battles are widely reported. The United Kingdom is the hub of Formula One racing, with six out of the eleven teams based there.

Title: World Squash Championships
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Squash_Championships
Summary: The World Squash Championships are squash events, which since the early 1990s have been held annually for both men and women organised by the Professional Squash Association. The men's event was first held in 1976 in London, England and the women's was inaugurated in 1976 in Brisbane, Australia.

Title: World Women's Snooker Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Women%27s_Snooker_Championship
Summary: The World Women's Snooker Championship (known as the Women's World Open from 1976 to 1981 and the World Ladies Snooker Championship from 1983 to 2018) is the longest-running and most prestigious tournament on the World Women's Snooker Tour. Staged 41 times since the inaugural edition in 1976, it has produced 15 different champions, six of whom have won the title more than once. 
The most successful player in the tournament's history has been Reanne Evans, who has won 12 titles, followed by Allison Fisher with seven titles and Kelly Fisher with five. The inaugural champion was Vera Selby, who won the title twice. Although the tournament had only one winner from outside the United Kingdom before 2014 (Australia's Lesley McIlrath in 1980) most recent editions have been won by Asian players. Hong Kong's Ng On-yee won three titles, in 2015, 2017 and 2018. Thai players Mink Nutcharut and Baipat Siripaporn won in 2022 and 2023 respectively, and China's Bai Yulu claimed her first title in 2024 and a second in 2025.
In 2021, the World Women’s Snooker Tour became an official qualification route to the main professional World Snooker Tour. At the end of each season, the reigning World Women's Snooker Champion receives a professional tour card for the following two seasons, as does the highest-ranked player in the women's rankings who is not already on the tour. If the World Champion is already on the tour, that card will be issued to the next highest ranked player who is not on the tour.

Title: Kabaddi World Cup (World Kabaddi)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kabaddi_World_Cup_(World_Kabaddi)
Summary: The Kabaddi World Cup, is an indoor international kabaddi tournament conducted by the World Kabaddi. It follows the standard style (indoors on a rectangular court) and is contested by both men's and women's national teams. The format involves a round-robin tournament followed by a knockout stage.
The World Cup has been held once (in 2019) with another scheduled for 2025. Unlike its IKF counterpart, all World Cups of World Kabaddi were held outside India to globalise the event. In 2019, both the men's and women's competitions were won by the Indian teams.

Title: 2026 World Women's Snooker Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_World_Women%27s_Snooker_Championship
Summary: The 2026 World Women's Snooker Championship (officially the 2026 Liber Win Nanjiang World Women's Snooker Championship) was a women's snooker tournament that took place from 12 to 19 May 2026 at Changping Snooker Center in Dongguan, China. The tournament was organised by World Women's Snooker in conjunction with the Chinese Billiard Sports Association (CBSA) and Cantonese Snooker (Changping). The winner received £13,000 from a total prize pool of £42,000, as well as a two-year professional tour card from the start of the 2026–27 snooker season. 
Bai Yulu was the defending champion, having defeated Mink Nutcharut 6–5 in the 2025 final, but she lost 3–4 to Panchaya Channoi in the quarter-finals. Channoi, aged 18, reached her first ranking women's final, where she defeated Reanne Evans 6–2 to claim her first world title. The third Thai player to win the event, after Mink Nutcharut in 2022 and Baipat Siripaporn in 2023, she became the youngest World Women's Champion since 16-year-old Ann-Marie Farren in 1987. Evans lost in the final of the event for the first time, having won all 12 of her previous world finals. The event produced two century breaks, 107 and 100, both made by Channoi in the final. She became the second player, after Evans in 2013, to make two centuries in a women's world final.
The event also included the World Women's Seniors Championship and the World Women's Under-21 Snooker Championship, whose respective defending champions were Tessa Davidson and Channoi. In the seniors event, Davidson lost 1–3 in the semi-finals to Deng Xin Shun, who went on to beat Han Fang 3–2 in the final, winning the deciding frame on the last black ball. In the Under-21 event, Channoi recovered from 0–2 behind to defeat Wang Ruotong 3–2 in the final, retaining the title. She became the second player to hold the world title and world Under-21 title simultaneously, after Bai in 2024.