Title: List of highest-grossing films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_films
Summary: Films generate income from several revenue streams, including theatrical exhibition, home video, television broadcast rights, and merchandising. However, theatrical box-office earnings are the primary metric for trade publications in assessing the success of a film, mostly because of the availability of the data compared to sales figures for home video and broadcast rights, but also because of historical practice. Included on the list are charts of the top box-office earners (ranked by both the nominal and real value of their revenue), a chart of high-grossing films by calendar year, a timeline showing the transition of the highest-grossing film record, and a chart of the highest-grossing film franchises and series. All charts are ranked by international theatrical box-office performance where possible, excluding income derived from home video, broadcasting rights, and merchandise.
Traditionally, war films, musicals, and historical dramas have been the most popular genres, but franchise films have been among the best performers of the 21st century. There is strong interest in the superhero genre, with eleven films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe featuring among the nominal top-earners. The most successful superhero film, Avengers: Endgame, is also the second-highest-grossing film on the nominal earnings chart, and there are four films in total based on the Avengers comic books charting in the top twenty-five. Other Marvel Comics adaptations have also had success with the Spider-Man and X-Men properties, while films based on Batman and Superman from DC Comics have generally performed well. Beyond the superhero genre, Star Wars, with four films, is the most represented franchise in the nominal earnings chart. Although the nominal earnings chart is dominated by films adapted from pre-existing properties and sequels, it is headed by Avatar, which is an original work. Animated family films have performed consistently well, with Disney films enjoying lucrative re-releases prior to the home-video era. Disney also enjoyed later success with films such as Frozen and its sequel, Zootopia and its sequel, and The Lion King (along with its computer-animated remake), as well as its Pixar division, of which Inside Out 2, Incredibles 2, and Toy Story 3, 4 and 5 have been the best performers. Beyond Disney and Pixar animation, China's Ne Zha 2 (the highest-grossing animated film), and the Despicable Me and Shrek series have met with the most success.
While inflation has eroded the achievements of most films from the 1960s and 1970s, there are franchises originating from that period that are still active. Besides the Star Wars franchise, James Bond films are still being released periodically; both are among the highest-grossing franchises. Some of the older films that held the record of highest-grossing film still have respectable grosses by today's standards, but no longer compete numerically against today's top-earners in an era of much higher individual ticket prices. When those prices are adjusted for inflation, however, then Gone with the Wind—which was the highest-grossing film outright for twenty-five years—is still the highest-grossing film of all time. All grosses on the list are expressed in U.S. dollars at their nominal value, except where stated otherwise.

Title: Ram (director)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ram_(director)
Summary: Ram is an Indian film director and actor, who works in Tamil cinema. After assisting Hindi director Rajkumar Santoshi and working under Balu Mahendra, he made his directorial debut with Kattradhu Thamizh (2007), which fetched him strong critical acclaim. His second film Thanga Meengal (2013) also won critical praise and three National Film Awards. He released his next film, Taramani, in August 2017 to critically acclaim and it eventually became a box-office success, evidently the biggest commercial success of his career.
His next three films, Peranbu (2018), Yezhu Kadal Yezhu Malai (2024), and Paranthu Po (2025), premiered at the International Film Festival Rotterdam. In addition to mentoring a new generation of filmmakers such as Mari Selvaraj and S. U. Arun Kumar, Ram's unique approaches to art, craft, and philosophy make him an important figure in Tamil cinema.

Title: A Minecraft Movie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Minecraft_Movie
Summary: A Minecraft Movie is a 2025 adventure comedy film based on the 2011 video game Minecraft developed and published by Mojang Studios. Directed by Jared Hess, from a screenplay by Chris Bowman, Hubbel Palmer, Neil Widener, Gavin James, and Chris Galletta, based on a story by Allison Schroeder, Bowman, and Palmer, the film stars Jason Momoa (who also serves as one of the producers), Jack Black, Emma Myers, Danielle Brooks, Sebastian Hansen, and Jennifer Coolidge. It follows four misfits from the fictional town of Chuglass, Idaho, who are pulled through a portal into a cubic world, and must embark on a quest back to the real world with the help of an expert named Steve.
Plans for a Minecraft film adaptation originated in 2014, when game creator Markus Persson revealed that Mojang Studios was in talks with Warner Bros. to develop the project. Throughout development, the film shifted between several directors, producers, and story drafts. By 2022, Legendary Entertainment became involved, and Hess was hired as director with Momoa in talks to star. Further casting took place from May 2023 to January 2024. Principal photography began later that month in New Zealand and concluded in April 2024. Mark Mothersbaugh composed the score, and Sony Pictures Imageworks, Wētā FX, and Digital Domain provided the film's visual effects.
A Minecraft Movie premiered in London on March 30, 2025, and was released in the United States and Sweden on April 4, by Warner Bros. Pictures. The film received mixed reviews from critics and was a box-office success; it grossed around $961 million, becoming the fifth-highest-grossing film of 2025 and the third-highest-grossing video game film of all time. Additionally, it became a Generation Z phenomenon when it spawned a trend known as the "Chicken Jockey" trend. A sequel, A Minecraft Movie Squared, is scheduled for release on July 23, 2027.

Title: Trap (2024 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trap_(2024_film)
Summary: Trap is a 2024 American thriller film produced, written, and directed by M. Night Shyamalan. The film stars Josh Hartnett, Ariel Donoghue, Shyamalan's daughter Saleka Night, Hayley Mills, and Alison Pill. The film follows Cooper Abbott, a serial killer known as the Butcher, who attends a concert with his teenage daughter Riley, only to discover the event has been intercepted by police who have been tipped off that he would be present.
The film was shot in Canada in late 2023. It premiered in New York City on July 24, 2024, and was theatrically released in the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures on August 2, 2024. It received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $83 million on a $30 million budget.

Title: List of 2024 box office number-one films in the United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_2024_box_office_number-one_films_in_the_United_States
Summary: This is a list of films that ranked number one at the weekend box office for the year 2024.