Title: List of ATP number 1 ranked singles tennis players
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ATP_number_1_ranked_singles_tennis_players
Summary: The PIF ATP rankings are the Association of Tennis Professionals' (ATP) merit-based system for determining the rankings in men's tennis. The top-ranked player is the player who, over the previous 52 weeks, has garnered the most ranking points on the ATP Tour. Points are awarded based on how far a player advances in tournaments and the category of those tournaments. The ATP has used a computerized system for determining the rankings since August 23, 1973. Starting in 1979, an updated rankings list is released at the beginning of each week. Since 1973, 29 players have been ranked No. 1 by the ATP, of which 19 have been year-end No. 1.

Title: ATP Masters 1000 singles records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ATP_Masters_1000_singles_records_and_statistics
Summary: In tennis, the ATP Masters is an annual series of nine top-level tennis tournaments featuring the elite men's tennis players on the ATP Tour. The tournaments are important for the top players on the professional circuit as the series constituted the most prestigious tournaments in men's tennis after the four Grand Slam events. The Masters series along with the Grand Slam tournaments, the ATP Finals championship and the Olympic Games are considered the top-tier events of men's tennis, referred to by the ATP as the "Big Titles".
Twelve tournaments have been held as Masters events so far, nine each year. They have been played on three different surfaces: hard outdoors: Indian Wells, Miami, Canada, Cincinnati and Shanghai; hard indoors: Stuttgart (1998–2001), Madrid (2002–08) and Paris; clay: Hamburg (1990–2008), Monte Carlo, Madrid and Rome; carpet indoors: Stockholm (1990-94), Stuttgart (1995–97) and Paris (1990–2006).

Title: List of career achievements by Novak Djokovic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_career_achievements_by_Novak_Djokovic
Summary: This article lists various career, tournament, and seasonal achievements by Serbian tennis player Novak Djokovic.
Djokovic has won an all-time record 24 Grand Slam singles titles. He has been the world No. 1 for a record total 428 weeks in a record 13 different years, and the year-end world No. 1 a record eight times. Djokovic is the only man in tennis history to be the reigning champion of all four majors at once across all three different surfaces and the only one to achieve a triple Career Grand Slam by winning all four majors at least three times. He has won a record 72 Big Titles, winning all four Grand Slams tournaments, all nine ATP Masters tournaments, the Year-end Championships and Olympic Gold, completing both the Career Golden Slam and Career Super Slam. Djokovic is widely regarded by sports analysts, tennis players and media pundits as one of the greatest tennis players of all time.
In addition to his winning records at majors, Djokovic has reached 38 Grand Slam finals, playing at least seven finals at each major and winning at least 95 matches at each major, all of which are all-time records. He also had a record five different winning streaks of 26 or more matches at majors with 30 being the longest (2015–16), an Open Era record.
Djokovic has won a record 40 ATP Masters titles. By 2018, he had won Masters titles across all nine tournaments, becoming the first player to achieve the Career Golden Masters. As a result, he is considered the most accomplished player in ATP Masters history for his versatility and success in winning Masters events on a consistent basis. Moreover, Djokovic has won a record seven Year-end Championship titles, including a record streak of four titles from 2012 to 2015.
Djokovic's 2011 season is considered one of the greatest seasons by a tennis player ever. Djokovic won 10 titles across all three different surfaces and defeated Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer a total of 10 times collectively with a match record of 10–1 against them. Djokovic went on a 41-match win streak and set a then-record of 5 Masters titles won in a season. In 2015, Djokovic won three majors in a season for the second time, improved his record of most Masters won in a season by claiming six titles, and finished the year by winning his fourth consecutive Year-end Championships title. Djokovic also made the finals of all elite tournaments he played in 2015, winning a season-record 10 Big Titles across all surfaces and setting a rankings record of 16,950 points while defeating a record 31 Top-10 players in the season.
Djokovic is unanimously regarded as the greatest hardcourt player ever. He has won a record 50 Big Titles on hardcourts, including the most Majors, most Masters and most Year-end Championship titles.
With his 7 Wimbledon titles, Djokovic is also regarded as one of the greatest players on grass courts in history.
Besides hard courts and grass courts, Djokovic has won 21 titles on clay, including three French Open titles, Olympic gold and 11 Masters titles, the latter of which is second only to Nadal's record of 26. Djokovic is one of three players, along with Robin Söderling and Alexander Zverev, to defeat Nadal at Roland Garros and the only one to do so twice. He is the only player to defeat Nadal in all three clay-court Masters events and the one who ended Nadal's consecutive run of 8 Monte Carlo titles in the 2013 final. 
Djokovic is the only player to win at least 3 majors across all three different surfaces (hard, clay and grass) and the only player to hold all major titles at once across the three surfaces. He is also the only player to win 6 Big Titles or more at one tournament on the three surfaces, the Australian Open being the most notable on hardcourts (outdoors), Wimbledon on grass, the Italian Open on clay, and the Year-end Championship on hardcourts (indoors).
Djokovic holds the records for most victories against top 10 and top 5 players. Furthermore, he has won a record 61 titles by defeating multiple top 10 players and a record 24 titles by defeating multiple top 5 players en route. He has been part of the two most prolific rivalries in the Open Era, versus Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer, with him having a winning head-to-head record against them. He is the only player to defeat Nadal and Federer in all four Grand Slam tournaments, and the only one to defeat them at their most successful major tournament more than once. Djokovic has scored 20 or more victories against a record seven different players; Nadal, Federer, Murray, Wawrinka, Berdych, Monfils, Cilic. In 2011, Djokovic had the most dominant record versus a world No. 1 during a single season, going 5–0 against Nadal before overtaking him as No. 1.

Title: 2024 ATP Tour
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_ATP_Tour
Summary: The 2024 ATP Tour was the global elite men's professional tennis circuit organized by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) for the 2024 tennis season. The 2024 ATP Tour calendar comprised the Grand Slam tournaments, supervised by the International Tennis Federation (ITF), the ATP Finals, the ATP Masters 1000, the United Cup (organized with the WTA), the ATP 500 series and the ATP 250 series. Also included in the 2024 calendar are the Davis Cup (organised by the ITF), the Summer Olympics in Paris, Next Gen ATP Finals and Laver Cup, none of which distribute ranking points.
Jannik Sinner finished the year as world No. 1 for the first time in his career. He won eight tournaments during the season, including two majors at the Australian Open and US Open, as well as the ATP Finals. He also won three ATP Masters 1000 events.

Title: 2026 ATP Tour
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_ATP_Tour
Summary: The 2026 ATP Tour is the global elite men's professional tennis circuit organized by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) for the 2026 tennis season. The 2026 ATP Tour calendar comprises the Grand Slam tournaments, supervised by World Tennis, the ATP Finals, the ATP Tour Masters 1000, the ATP 500, the ATP 250, and the United Cup (organized with the WTA). Also included in the 2026 calendar are the Davis Cup (organized by World Tennis), Next Gen ATP Finals, and Laver Cup, none of which distribute ranking points.