Title: Noma (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noma_(restaurant)
Summary: Noma () is a restaurant and food innovation lab founded by chef René Redzepi and Claus Meyer in Copenhagen, Denmark. The name is a syllabic abbreviation of the two Danish words "nordisk" (Nordic) and "mad" (food). Opened in 2003, the restaurant is known for its focus on foraging, invention and interpretation of New Nordic Cuisine. In 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, and 2021 it was ranked as the Best Restaurant in the World by Restaurant magazine. 
In January 2023, Redzepi announced that Noma would transition away from traditional restaurant service, with its final regular dinner service taking place in Kyoto, Japan, in December 2024. Noma continues to operate as a food lab and through periodic pop-up residencies.

Title: New Nordic Cuisine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Nordic_Cuisine
Summary: New Nordic Cuisine (Danish: Det nye nordiske køkken, Swedish: Det nya nordiska köket, Norwegian: Det nye nordiske kjøkken, Finnish: Uusi pohjoismainen keittiö, Icelandic: Nýnorræn matargerð, Faroese: Nýggi norðurlendski køkurin) is a culinary movement which has been developed in the Nordic countries, Minnesota, and Scandinavia in particular, since the mid-2000s. New Nordic Cuisine was propelled and inspired by new ideas introduced in a manifesto written by food activist and entrepreneur Claus Meyer and a number of Scandinavian chefs in 2004 in Copenhagen. New Nordic Cuisine has been used to promote local, natural and seasonal produce as a foundation for new dishes both at restaurants and in the home. As a result, a number of restaurants, particularly restaurants in Denmark, have introduced local ingredients, some often new to the usual palate, in combination with traditional foods prepared in new ways. One notable chef who helped popularize New Nordic cuisine is René Redzepi, the former head chef of Noma.

Title: Alchemist (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alchemist_(restaurant)
Summary: Alchemist is a two Michelin-star restaurant founded and run by chef Rasmus Munk, in Copenhagen, Denmark. The restaurant is placed in the top 10 of The World's 50 Best Restaurants, ranking 8th in 2024 and 5th in 2025. In 2024, it was described by The New Yorker as "one of the most sought-after reservations in the fine-dining world". According to Munk, the restaurant has "a holistic approach extending beyond the plate to create thought-provoking, aesthetical, emotional and gastrophysical meal experiences."

Title: Carmy Berzatto
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carmy_Berzatto
Summary: Carmen Anthony Berzatto, typically called Carmy, Carm, or Bear, is a fictional character on the FX Network television series The Bear. Created by Christopher Storer and played by Jeremy Allen White, Carmy is a nationally acclaimed chef who returns home to Chicago to run his family's failing Italian beef sandwich restaurant after the death of his older brother. White has received multiple Emmy and Golden Globe awards for his performance.

Title: List of The Bear characters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_The_Bear_characters
Summary: The characters of the FX Networks television series The Bear, an American family dramedy television program launched in 2022, are predominantly people who work with the Berzattos at family businesses including a semi-seedy Italian beef sandwich shop, the Original Beef of Chicagoland. The Beef is later transformed into a high-end dinner destination (with a window on the side, for sandwiches) known as the Bear. The series is set in Chicago, Illinois, United States.