Title: European Aquatics Championships
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Aquatics_Championships
Summary: The European Aquatics Championships (commonly referred to as Europeans) is the continental Aquatics championship for Europe, which is organised by European Aquatics (LEN) – the governing body for aquatic sport in Europe. The Championships are currently held every two years (in even years) and since 2022, they have included 5 aquatics disciplines: swimming (long course/50m pool), diving, synchronised swimming, open water swimming and high diving. Prior to 1999, the championships also included water polo, which beginning in 1999 LEN split-off into a separate championships. The open water events are not held during the Olympic year.
The Championships are generally held over a two-week time-period in mid-to-late Summer, but in the most recent Summer Olympics years (2004, 2008, 2012, 2016 and 2020), the Championships were moved to the Spring to be moved away from the Summer Olympic Games.
The swimming portion of these championships is considered one of the pre-eminent swimming competitions in the world. LEN also conducts an annual short-course (25 meters) swimming championship, which is a completely separate, distinct event (typically held in early December).

Title: World Aquatics Championships
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Aquatics_Championships
Summary: The World Aquatics Championships, formerly the FINA World Championships, are the World Championships for six aquatic disciplines: swimming, diving, high diving, open water swimming, artistic swimming, and water polo. The championships are staged by World Aquatics, formerly known as FINA (Fédération internationale de natation), the international federation recognised by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) for administering international competitions in water sports. The championships are World Aquatics' largest and main event traditionally held biennially every odd year, with all six of the aquatic disciplines contested every championships. Dr. Hal Henning, FINA's president from 1972 through 1976, and their first American President, was highly instrumental in starting the first World Aquatics Championships, and in retaining the number of swimming events in the Olympics, which gave an advantage to nations with larger, more balanced swim teams.
The championships were first staged in 1973 in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, with competitions held in swimming, diving, synchronised swimming and water polo. In 1991 open water swimming was added to the championships as a fifth discipline. In 2013 high diving was added to the championships as a sixth discipline. In 2017 the synchronised swimming discipline was renamed to artistic swimming.
Prior to the 9th World Aquatics Championships in Fukuoka in 2001, the championships had been staged at various intervals of two to four years. From 2001 to 2019 the championships were held biennially in odd years. Due to interruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, travel restrictions, host venues withdrawing from hosting championships and World Aquatics' withdrawing the rights to host championships, the championships held annually from 2022 to 2024 until back to biennial from 2025 onwards.
The World Aquatics Open Water Swimming Championships (also known as 'Open Water Worlds') is part of the World Aquatics Championships. Additional standalone editions of the Open Water Championships were also held in the even years from 2000 to 2010. The World Aquatics Masters Championships (also known as 'Masters Worlds) is open to athletes 25 years and above (30+ years in water polo) in each aquatics discipline excluding high diving and has been held as part of the World Aquatics Championships since 2015. Prior to this, the Masters Championship was held separately, biennially in even years.
Athletes from all current 208 World Aquatics member federations are eligible to compete at the championships, along with athletes considered 'Neutral Independent Athletes' under the rules of World Aquatics and athletes from the 'World Aquatics Refugee Team'. The 2019 championships set the record for the most athletes participating (2,623). At the recent 2025 championships athletes participated from 206 nations: 203 member federations, 1 Athlete Refugee Team and 2 Neutral Athletes teams.

Title: High diving
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_diving
Summary: High diving is the act of diving into water from relatively great heights. High diving can be performed as an adventure sport (as with cliff diving), as a performance stunt (as with many records attempts), or competitively during sporting events.
It debuted at a FINA event at the 2013 World Aquatics Championships in Barcelona, after the sport was added to the federation's list of disciplines. In the world championships, men jump from a 27-metre-high (89 ft) platform while women jump from a 20-metre-high (66 ft) platform. In other official competitions, men generally dive from a height of 22–27 metres (72–89 ft) while women dive from a height of 18–23 metres (59–75 ft). The sport is unique in that athletes are often unable to practice in an authentic environment until the days leading up to a competition. High divers have achieved speeds of descent of 96 kilometres per hour (60 mph).

Title: Molly Carlson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molly_Carlson
Summary: Molly Carlson (born September 23, 1998) is a Canadian high diver and social media personality. She is a member of Canada's senior national high diving team and placed second at the 2022, 2023, and 2024 Red Bull Cliff Diving World Series. Carlson uploads videos of herself diving on TikTok and YouTube.

Title: 2024 World Aquatics Swimming Championships (25 m)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_World_Aquatics_Swimming_Championships_(25_m)
Summary: The 17th World Aquatics Swimming Championships (25 m) took place from 10 to 15 December 2024 in Budapest, Hungary, at the Duna Arena. Swimming events in the championships were conducted in a 25 m indoor (short course) pool.
The 4 × 50 m freestyle relay and 4 × 50 m medley relay for men and women were removed from the program, and the mixed 4 × 100 m medley relay was added, for a total of 45 medal events.
The United States topped the medal table, winning 18 gold & 39 medals in total, and broke 21 world records in the championships, were given the Best Team Award. Noe Ponti of Switzerland was named the Best Male swimmer and Gretchen Walsh of the US was named the Best Female swimmer.
Belarusian swimmers competed under the name of "Neutral Athletes A" under the World Aquatics flag, while Russian swimmers competed under the name of "Neutral Athletes B", also under the World Aquatics flag.