Title: Academy Award for Best Film Editing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Academy_Award_for_Best_Film_Editing
Summary: The Academy Award for Best Film Editing is one of the annual awards of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS). Nominations for this award are closely correlated with the Academy Award for Best Picture. For 33 consecutive years, 1981 to 2013, every Best Picture winner had also been nominated for the Film Editing Oscar, and only 38 of the 98 Best Picture winners have also won for Film Editing. Only the principal, "above the line" editor(s) as listed in the film's credits are named on the award; additional editors, supervising editors, etc. are not currently eligible.
The nominations for this Academy Award are determined by a ballot of the voting members of the Editing Branch of the academy; there were 220 members of the Editing Branch in 2012. The members may vote for up to five of the eligible films in the order of their preference; the five films with the largest vote totals are selected as nominees. The Academy Award itself is selected from the nominated films by a subsequent ballot of all active and life members of the academy. This process is essentially the reverse of that of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA); nominations for the BAFTA Award for Best Editing are done by a general ballot of academy voters, and the winner is selected by members of the editing chapter.

Title: Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mission:_Impossible_%E2%80%93_Dead_Reckoning_Part_One
Summary: Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One is a 2023 American action spy film directed by Christopher McQuarrie from a screenplay he co-wrote with Erik Jendresen. It is the sequel to Mission: Impossible – Fallout (2018) and the seventh installment in the Mission: Impossible film series. The ensemble cast includes Tom Cruise, Hayley Atwell, Ving Rhames, Simon Pegg, Rebecca Ferguson, Vanessa Kirby, Esai Morales, Pom Klementieff, Mariela Garriga and Henry Czerny. Cruise plays the Impossible Missions Force agent Ethan Hunt, whose team faces a rogue artificial intelligence.
In January 2019, Cruise announced the next two Mission: Impossible films would be shot back-to-back, with McQuarrie writing and directing both. The cast was announced soon after, and Lorne Balfe, who composed the score for Fallout, returned to score. Filming began in Italy in February 2020 but was halted by the COVID-19 pandemic. It resumed later that year and wrapped in September 2021, with other filming locations including Norway, the United Kingdom and the United Arab Emirates. With an estimated gross budget of $291 million, including a net $220 million budget, it is one of the most expensive films ever made.
Dead Reckoning Part One premiered in Rome on June 19, 2023, and was theatrically released in the United States on July 12, by Paramount Pictures. It received critical acclaim and grossed $571.1 million worldwide, becoming the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2023, but was considered a box-office disappointment relative to its budget though it performed slightly better overseas. It was nominated in two categories at the 96th Academy Awards and the 77th British Academy Film Awards. A sequel, Mission: Impossible – The Final Reckoning, was released in 2025.

Title: Hamnet (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamnet_(film)
Summary: Hamnet is a 2025 historical drama film directed by Chloé Zhao, who co-wrote the screenplay with Maggie O'Farrell, based on the 2020 novel by O'Farrell. The film dramatises the family life of William Shakespeare and his wife Agnes Hathaway as they cope with the death of their 11-year-old son Hamnet. It stars Jessie Buckley and Paul Mescal as Agnes and William, alongside Emily Watson, Joe Alwyn, and Jacobi Jupe in supporting roles.
Hamnet had its world premiere at the 52nd Telluride Film Festival on 29 August 2025 and received a limited theatrical release by Focus Features in the United States and Canada on 26 November. It received a wide theatrical release on 5 December and was released by Universal Pictures in the United Kingdom on 9 January 2026. Critical reception was positive, with Buckley's performance receiving particular praise. The film received numerous accolades, including winning the Best Motion Picture – Drama and Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama for Buckley at the 83rd Golden Globe Awards, and eight nominations at the 98th Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director for Zhao, with Buckley winning the Academy Award for Best Actress.

Title: Nirvanna the Band the Show the Movie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nirvanna_the_Band_the_Show_the_Movie
Summary: Nirvanna the Band the Show the Movie is a 2025 Canadian science fiction comedy film directed by Matt Johnson, from a script he wrote with Jay McCarrol. It is based on their 2007–2009 web series, Nirvana the Band the Show, and its 2017–2018 television adaptation, Nirvanna the Band the Show. As in the previous series, Johnson and McCarrol star as fictionalised versions of themselves in a musical duo called Nirvanna the Band as they attempt to book a gig at the Rivoli in Toronto. A new plan accidentally sends Matt and Jay back in time to 2008.
Development of a feature adaptation began as early as 2009. After the success of his 2023 film BlackBerry, Johnson secured financing for the project through Telefilm Canada. Shot over 200 days with a small crew, the film was produced in a guerrilla style similar to the television series, with many scenes filmed in public without permits and featuring improvised interactions with unsuspecting members of the public. Its plot was heavily inspired by Back to the Future (1985), which is also heavily referenced throughout the film.
Nirvanna the Band the Show the Movie premiered at the 2025 South by Southwest Film & TV Festival on March 9, 2025, before being theatrically released in Canada and the United States on February 13, 2026. It received critical acclaim, winning Best Motion Picture at the 14th Canadian Screen Awards. McCarrol and Johnson were also recognised for their performances, winning Best Lead Performance in a Comedy Film and Best Supporting Performance in a Comedy Film, respectively.

Title: 45th Golden Raspberry Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/45th_Golden_Raspberry_Awards
Summary: The 45th Golden Raspberry Awards, or the Razzies, honored the worst films released in 2024 on February 28, 2025. The awards are based on votes from members of the Golden Raspberry Foundation. The nominees were initially set to be announced on January 16, 2025; due to the Southern California wildfires, however, the announcement was delayed to January 18 and again to January 22, before they were eventually announced a day early on January 21.
Winners were announced a day early before the originally scheduled date (March 1) on February 28.
The nominations were selected through emailed ballots by 1,202 Razzie members: movie enthusiasts, film critics, and journalists from 49 U.S. states and approximately two dozen other countries, who identified the top five contenders in each of the nine categories.