Title: Matt Hughes (fighter)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matt_Hughes_(fighter)
Summary: Matthew Allen Hughes (born October 13, 1973) is an American retired mixed martial artist with a background in wrestling. Widely considered among the greatest fighters in the history of MMA, he is a former two-time UFC Welterweight Champion, UFC Hall of Fame inductee, and NJCAA Hall of Fame inductee. During his ventures in the Ultimate Fighting Championship, Hughes put together two six-fight winning streaks defeating all of the available opposition in the welterweight division. In May 2010, Hughes became the eighth inductee into the UFC Hall of Fame.
During his reign, Hughes was considered the #1 pound-for-pound mixed martial artist in the world. He was also regarded by many analysts and several media outlets as one of the greatest welterweight fighters of all time, as well as one of the greatest pound-for-pound fighters in the sport's history. Fight Matrix ranks Hughes as the second-greatest welterweight and the #7 pound-for-pound greatest fighter of all time.
A long-time member of Miletich Fighting Systems, Hughes left the Miletich camp in late 2007 to start Team Hughes. In 2008, Hughes published his autobiography, Made in America, which made the New York Times bestseller list. In 2011, Hughes became host of Outdoor Channel's Trophy Hunters TV. Hughes has no nickname, although because of his successes against Gracie Brazilian jiu-jitsu (BJJ) practitioners such as Royce Gracie, Renzo Gracie, Ricardo Almeida, and Matt Serra, people often refer to him as "the Gracie Killer" (the same as Sakuraba's nickname). His mastery of submissions, and having submission wins over various black belt holders, are the reasons why Joe Rogan thinks he deserved to get a black belt for BJJ. Hughes never liked the idea, however, and considers himself primarily an amateur and submission wrestler.

Title: Jim Miller (fighter)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Miller_(fighter)
Summary: James Andrew Miller (born August 30, 1983) is an American professional mixed martial artist. He currently competes in the Lightweight division of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), where he holds the UFC records for most bouts (47), most total wins (28), and most submission attempts (52) in the promotion's history. Within the lightweight division, he also owns the records for most wins (25), most finishes (18), most submission wins (12), and most submission attempts (49). He is also the younger brother of former UFC fighter Dan Miller.

Title: Stephen Thompson (fighter)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Thompson_(fighter)
Summary: Stephen Randall Thompson (born February 11, 1983) is an American professional mixed martial artist and former professional kickboxer. Thompson currently competes in the Welterweight division of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). As a full-contact kickboxer, Thompson was undefeated through 37 amateur and 20 professional matches. Thompson is regarded as one of the most accomplished strikers in the UFC.
Thompson is well known for his polite demeanor, and is often cited by other fighters as one of the most respectful fighters in the UFC.

Title: Robert Whittaker (fighter)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Whittaker_(fighter)
Summary: Robert John Whittaker (born 20 December 1990) is an Australian professional mixed martial artist. He currently competes in the light heavyweight division of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), where he is a former UFC Middleweight Champion and the first Australian to win a UFC championship. As of 22 August 2026, he is #12 in the Meta UFC light heavyweight rankings.
A professional since 2009, Whittaker was a contestant on the first series of The Ultimate Fighter: The Smashes and won the welterweight tournament. Whittaker became interim middleweight champion after winning the title at UFC 213; he was promoted to undisputed champion after Georges St-Pierre vacated the UFC Middleweight Championship in 2017.

Title: 2024 in UFC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_in_UFC
Summary: The year 2024 is the 32nd year in the history of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), a mixed martial arts promotion based in the United States.