Title: Call of Duty: Ghosts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Ghosts
Summary: Call of Duty: Ghosts is a 2013 first-person shooter game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. It is the tenth major installment in the Call of Duty series and the sixth developed by Infinity Ward. It was released for PlayStation 3, Wii U, Windows, Xbox 360, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in November 2013.
The game acts as a standalone installment in the wider Call of Duty franchise in lieu of the World War II, Black Ops and Modern Warfare series that preceded it. Ghosts inherits much of the core gameplay and structure of previous titles, with a mission-based campaign and an open-ended multiplayer, but introduces a near-future setting to the series as well as an increased focus on tactical gameplay, including the addition of new "Squads" modes and orbital strike superweapons to the multiplayer. The single-player campaign follows a protracted high-tech war against a dictatorial united South America. Ghosts also features an alternative co-operative shooter mode titled Extinction, acting as a spiritual successor to the Zombies co-operative PvE game modes introduced to the franchise in Call of Duty: World at War. The science fiction elements of the game's campaign and setting would be further explored in Advanced Warfare and Infinite Warfare.
Ghosts received mixed reviews from critics, with praise for its multiplayer gameplay and the Extinction mode, and criticism for its single-player campaign, rehashing of familiar concepts, and general lack of innovation. Retrospective reviews have been generally negative, with the game placing low in lists ranking the series' games. Because of its reception, and coinciding with the launch of eighth generation consoles, it failed to meet Activision's expectations. Ghosts was the last Call of Duty game to be released on a Nintendo system until Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 4 on the Nintendo Switch 2 in 2026.

Title: Call of Duty: Black Ops II
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Black_Ops_II
Summary: Call of Duty: Black Ops II is a 2012 first-person shooter game developed by Treyarch and published by Activision. It was released for Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 on November 13, 2012, and for the Wii U on November 18 in North America and November 30 in PAL regions. Black Ops II is the ninth game in the Call of Duty franchise of video games, a sequel to the 2010 game Call of Duty: Black Ops and the first Call of Duty game for the Wii U. A corresponding game for the PlayStation Vita, Call of Duty: Black Ops: Declassified, was developed by nStigate Games and also released on November 13. Ports for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5, developed by Iron Galaxy Studios, were released on July 9, 2026.
In the 1980s, the player switches control between Alex Mason and Frank Woods, the former being one of the protagonists from Black Ops, while in 2025, the player assumes control of Mason's son, David (codenamed "Section"). Both time periods involve the characters pursuing Raul Menendez, a Nicaraguan arms dealer and later terrorist, who is responsible for kidnapping David in the 80s and later sparking a Second Cold War in 2025. The campaign features non-linear gameplay and has multiple endings. Locations featured in the game include Angola, Myanmar, Afghanistan, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Cayman Islands, Panama, Yemen, the United States, and Haiti.
Development for the game began soon after the release of Black Ops, with Activision promising that the follow-up would bring "meaningful innovation" to the Call of Duty franchise. Black Ops II is the first game in the series to feature futuristic warfare technology and the first to present branching storylines driven by player choice as well as selecting weapons before starting story mode missions. It also offers a 3D display option. The game was officially revealed on May 1, 2012, following a set of leaked information released during the previous months.
Black Ops II received mostly positive reviews from critics, with praise for its gameplay variety, story, multiplayer, Zombies mode, and villain, while its Strike Force missions received criticism. Retrospective reviewers consider it one of the best games in the series. The game was a commercial success; within 24 hours of its release, it grossed over $500 million. It had remained the largest entertainment launch of all time until the release of Grand Theft Auto V (2013). By November 2013, the game had sold over 24 million copies, making it one of the series' best-selling entries. 
Sequels to the game continued or expanded the storyline: Call of Duty: Black Ops III (2015) acts as a direct sequel; Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War (2020) is set between the events of Black Ops and Black Ops II; Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 (2024) is set after Black Ops II's flashback missions; and Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 (2025) is set after the events of Black Ops II.

Title: Call of Duty: Black Ops 6
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Black_Ops_6
Summary: Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 is a 2024 first-person shooter video game co-developed by Treyarch and Raven Software and published by Activision. It is the twenty-first main installment of the Call of Duty series and is the seventh entry in the Black Ops sub-series, following Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War (2020). Set during Operation Desert Storm, Black Ops 6's single-player story follows rogue CIA operatives Troy Marshall and Frank Woods as they assemble a team of agents to hunt down Pantheon, a paramilitary group with covert ties to the agency. As with previous Call of Duty titles, the game also includes a multiplayer component and a new iteration of the cooperative round-based Zombies mode. 
Black Ops 6 had a four-year development cycle—the longest in Call of Duty history; a portion of the game's production was spent on rebuilding core aspects of Black Ops within the latest version of the Call of Duty game engine. An omnidirectional movement system was also introduced, allowing players to sprint, dive, and slide in any direction. Marketing for Black Ops 6 began in May 2024, through the release of live-action teaser trailers and the publishing of advertisements on the front pages of multiple newspaper outlets; a full reveal debuted during the 2024 Xbox Games Showcase event on June 9. The game was released on October 25, 2024, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.
Upon release, Black Ops 6 received generally favorable reviews from critics, achieved the largest launch weekend in the franchise's history, and was nominated for several accolades. All three modes were met with praise, with critics positively highlighting the new omnidirectional movement system. A sequel, titled Call of Duty: Black Ops 7, was released in November 2025.

Title: Call of Duty: Black Ops 7
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Black_Ops_7
Summary: Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 is a 2025 first-person shooter video game co-developed by Treyarch and Raven Software and published by Activision. It is the twenty-second main installment of the Call of Duty series and is the eighth entry in the Black Ops sub-series, following Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 (2024). Set in 2035, Black Ops 7's story—playable in co-op or single-player—follows a JSOC unit led by David Mason as they investigate the apparent return of deceased terrorist Raul Menendez. As with previous Call of Duty titles, the game also includes a multiplayer component and the cooperative round-based Zombies mode.
Development on Black Ops 7 took place concurrently with the production of Black Ops 6, with both games being green-lit at the same time. Marketing for the title began in June 2025 with the release of a cinematic trailer during the 2025 Xbox Games Showcase event; a full reveal debuted on August 19, at Gamescom. Black Ops 7 was released on November 14, 2025, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. It received mixed reviews from critics and a negative response from players, with the game being the subject of review bombing on Metacritic. The title ranked as the fifth best-selling game in the United States for 2025, the lowest end-of-year ranking for a Call of Duty release since 2008.

Title: Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 4
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Modern_Warfare_4
Summary: Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 4 is an upcoming first-person shooter game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. It is the twenty-third installment in the Call of Duty series and the fourth entry in the rebooted Modern Warfare sub-series, following Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III (2023). It is set to be released on October 23, 2026, for Nintendo Switch 2, PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S.