Title: List of Eurovision Song Contest winners
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Eurovision_Song_Contest_winners
Summary: 73 songs written by 154 songwriters have won the Eurovision Song Contest, an international song competition organised annually by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU). The contest, which has been broadcast every year since its debut in 1956, is one of the longest-running television programmes in the world. The contest's winner has been determined using numerous voting techniques throughout its history; centre to these have been the awarding of points by juries or televoters. The entry awarded the most points is declared the winner. The first contest was not won on points, but by votes (two per country), and only the winner was announced.
There have been 70 contests, with one winner each year except for the tied 1969 contest, which had four. Songs representing 28 countries have won the contest, with Switzerland winning the first contest in 1956. The countries with the highest number of wins are Ireland and Sweden with seven wins each. Two people have won more than once as a performer: Ireland's Johnny Logan, who performed "What's Another Year" in 1980 and "Hold Me Now" in 1987, and Sweden's Loreen, who performed "Euphoria" in 2012 and "Tattoo" in 2023. Logan is also one of seven songwriters to have written more than one winning entry ("Hold Me Now" and "Why Me?" performed by Linda Martin in 1992), and is the only person to have three Eurovision victories to their credit, as either singer, songwriter or both. The other six songwriters with more than one winning entry to their credit are Willy van Hemert (Netherlands 1957 and 1959), Yves Dessca (Monaco 1971 and Luxembourg 1972), Rolf Løvland (Norway 1985 and 1995), Brendan Graham (Ireland 1994 and 1996), and Thomas G:son and Peter Boström (both for Sweden 2012 and 2023).
Relatively few winners of the Eurovision Song Contest have gone on to achieve major success in the music industry. The most notable winners who have gone on to become international stars are ABBA, who won for Sweden in 1974 with their song "Waterloo", and Céline Dion, who won for Switzerland in 1988 with the song "Ne partez pas sans moi". More recently, Duncan Laurence, who won for the Netherlands in 2019 with "Arcade", experienced worldwide streaming success with the song as a sleeper hit throughout 2020 and 2021, with it becoming the most streamed Eurovision entry on Spotify. Måneskin, winners for Italy in 2021 with "Zitti e buoni", subsequently achieved worldwide popularity in the months following their victory.
The performer and the songwriter(s) of the winning song only receive a medal or a trophy, while its participating broadcaster is invited to host the following year's contest. Since 2008, the performer has been awarded a handmade trophy of sandblasted glass in the shape of a 1950s microphone, while the songwriter(s) and the broadcaster receive smaller versions of the trophy. Its original design was created by Kjell Engman of Kosta Boda, who specialises in glass art. This trophy is notoriously fragile, and the support infamously broke on stage right after being received by Alexander Rybak, who won for Norway in 2009, and by Nemo, who won for Switzerland in 2024. The trophies given to Emmelie de Forest, who won for Denmark in 2013, to Netta, who won for Israel in 2018, and to JJ, who won for Austria in 2025, also broke in the exact same spot after the event. Despite this, no redesigns have been made since.

Title: List of Junior Eurovision Song Contest winners
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Junior_Eurovision_Song_Contest_winners
Summary: The Junior Eurovision Song Contest is an annual contest organised annually by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) for children aged between 9 and 14 (8 and 15 between 2003 and 2006, 10 and 15 between 2007 and 2015). The contest has been broadcast every year since its inception in 2003, and is based on the Eurovision Song Contest, one of the longest-running television programmes in the world. The contest's winner has been determined using numerous voting techniques throughout its history; centre to these have been points awarded through jury voting or public voting. The song awarded the most points is declared the winner.
As of 2024, twenty-two contests have been held, with one winner each. Twelve countries have won the Junior Eurovision Song Contest. The countries with the highest number of wins are Georgia and France with four wins each. Five countries have won the contest twice: Armenia, Belarus, Malta, Poland (first country to win two years in a row and the first country to win on home soil), and Russia, and five have won the contest once: Croatia, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, and Ukraine. Both Croatia and Italy achieved their wins on their debut participation in the contest. The first repeat winner was Belarus, which occurred in 2007, while the first country to win three times was Georgia, which occurred in 2016. North Macedonia is the country with the longest history in the contest without a win, having made eighteen appearances since their debut in the inaugural contest in 2003.
Winning the Junior Eurovision Song Contest provides an opportunity for the winning artist(s) to capitalize on their success and surrounding publicity by launching or furthering their career. Some artists from Junior Eurovision have progressed later in their careers to participate in national finals for the Eurovision Song Contest or the main event proper, including Molly Sandén, Nevena Božović, the Tolmachevy Sisters, Lisa, Amy and Shelley (later known as Ogene), Stefania Liberakakis, Destiny Chukunyere, Iru Khechanovi, and Bzikebi.
Unlike the Eurovision Song Contest, the winning broadcaster of the previous year's Junior Eurovision Song Contest does not automatically receive the right to host the next edition, and until 2012 it was not tradition for it to host the next edition of the contest. This has been applied through since 2013, with only the 2015, 2018, and 2024 editions being held in a different country than the previous winner. Before 2012, with the exception of the first two years (2003 and 2004), the countries would bid for the privilege to host the next year's Junior Eurovision.

Title: Eurovision Song Contest 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eurovision_Song_Contest_2024
Summary: The Eurovision Song Contest 2024 was the 68th edition of the Eurovision Song Contest. It consisted of two semi-finals on 7 and 9 May and a final on 11 May 2024, held at the Malmö Arena in Malmö, Sweden, and presented by Petra Mede and Malin Åkerman. It was organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and host broadcaster Sveriges Television (SVT), which staged the event after winning the 2023 contest for Sweden with the song "Tattoo" by Loreen. Mede had previously presented the 2013 and 2016 contests.
Broadcasters from thirty-seven countries participated in the contest, the same number as in 2023. Romania opted not to participate, and Luxembourg competed for the first time since 1993. The Netherlands was disqualified from the contest between the second semi-final and the final, but the country retained its right to vote. The inclusion of Israel among the participants in the context of the Gaza war was met with controversy, and additional security measures were put in place for the event.
The winner was Switzerland with the song "The Code", performed by Nemo who wrote it with Benjamin Alasu, Lasse Midtsian Nymann, and Linda Dale. Switzerland won the combined vote and jury vote, and placed fifth in the televote. Croatia won the televote and finished in second place, its best result to date as an independent country, having previously won in 1989 as a part of Yugoslavia. Ukraine, France, and Israel completed the top five.
The EBU reported that the contest had a television audience of 163 million viewers in 37 European markets, an increase of a million viewers from the previous edition, with an additional 7.3 million viewers online on YouTube.

Title: Eurovision Song Contest 2025
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eurovision_Song_Contest_2025
Summary: The Eurovision Song Contest 2025 was the 69th edition of the Eurovision Song Contest. It consisted of two semi-finals on 13 and 15 May and a final on 17 May 2025, held at St. Jakobshalle in Basel, Switzerland, and presented by Hazel Brugger and Sandra Studer, with Michelle Hunziker joining for the final. It was organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and host broadcaster the Swiss Broadcasting Corporation (SRG SSR), which staged the event after winning the 2024 contest for Switzerland with the song "The Code" by Nemo.
Broadcasters from thirty-seven countries participated in the contest, the same number as the previous two editions. Montenegro returned after a two-year absence, while Moldova, which had originally planned to participate, later withdrew due to economic reasons and the quality of the songs competing in its national selection. Israel's participation continued to cause controversy in the context of the Gaza war, with some participating broadcasters calling for a discussion on the issue.
The winner was Austria with the song "Wasted Love", performed by JJ and written by him along with Teodora Špirić and Thomas Thurner. Austria won the combined vote and jury vote, and placed fourth in the televote. Israel won the televote and finished in second place, with Estonia, Sweden, and Italy completing the top five. The EBU reported that the contest had a television audience of 166 million viewers in 37 European markets, an increase of three million viewers from the previous edition.

Title: Eurovision Song Contest 2026
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eurovision_Song_Contest_2026
Summary: The Eurovision Song Contest 2026 was the 70th edition of the Eurovision Song Contest. It consisted of two semi-finals on 12 and 14 May and a final on 16 May 2026, held at Wiener Stadthalle in Vienna, Austria, and presented by Victoria Swarovski and Michael Ostrowski, with Emily Busvine acting as the green room host. It was organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and host broadcaster Österreichischer Rundfunk (ORF), which staged the event after winning the 2025 contest for Austria with the song "Wasted Love" by JJ.
Broadcasters from thirty-five countries participated in the contest, two fewer than in 2025 and the smallest number of participants since 2003, before the introduction of semi-finals. Iceland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Slovenia, and Spain opted not to participate in protest at Israel's inclusion in the context of the Gaza war, marking the largest number of boycotting countries in the contest's history since 1970, while Bulgaria, Moldova, and Romania returned after absences from recent editions.
The winner was Bulgaria with the song "Bangaranga", performed by Dara and written by her with Anne Judith Wik, Cristian Tarcea, and Dimitris Kontopoulos. The song won both the jury vote and televote, the first entry to do so since Portugal in 2017, and gave Bulgaria its first win in the contest. Israel, Romania, Australia, and Italy rounded out the top five, with Romania equaling its best placements from 2005 and 2010 while achieving its highest points total to date. Luxembourg failed to qualify for the final for the first time, leaving Ukraine as the only country to have always progressed from the semi-finals since their introduction in 2004.
The EBU reported that the contest had a television audience of 131 million viewers in 35 European markets, a decrease of 35 million viewers from the previous edition and the lowest viewing figures since the 2012 contest, which attracted 103 million viewers.