Title: Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Modern_Warfare_3
Summary: Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is a 2011 first-person shooter game developed by Infinity Ward and Sledgehammer Games and published by Activision. The game was released worldwide on November 8, 2011, for Microsoft Windows, the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, Wii, and OS X. It is the sequel to Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 (2009), serving as the third and final installment in the original Modern Warfare trilogy and the eighth Call of Duty installment overall. A separate version for the Nintendo DS was developed by n-Space, while Treyarch developed the game's Wii port. In Japan, Square Enix published the game with a separate subtitled and dubbed version.
The game's campaign follows Modern Warfare 2 and begins right after the events of its final mission. Similar to Modern Warfare 2, it is centered on Task Force 141, which contains Captain Price, Soap MacTavish, and a newly introduced playable character, Yuri. Alongside the Delta Force and Special Air Service, they hunt Vladimir Makarov (the main antagonist of the trilogy), a Russian terrorist who leads the Russian Ultranationalist party. He led several terror attacks across Europe, triggering a large-scale war between the Ultranationalists and friendly forces. For the game's multiplayer mode, new mode types and killstreak choices were brought in. Improvements were also made to the mode that solved issues that appeared in Modern Warfare 2.
Using an enhanced version of Modern Warfare 2's IW engine, development for the game began in 2010 with more than one developer studio. Prior to development, Infinity Ward co-founders Jason West and Vince Zampella left the company to form Respawn Entertainment. Other members had been fired or had left the company following the duo's departure. Sledgehammer Games had joined the Modern Warfare 3 development force, with Raven Software also developing the game's multiplayer mode. Following a large leak containing detailed information about the game, multiple teaser trailers were released, with each showcasing a location featured in the game's campaign, leading up to a full reveal.
Modern Warfare 3 received positive reviews from critics, with praise for its gameplay, campaign, and multiplayer, although there was some criticism for its story and lack of innovation. Retrospective reviewers believe the game failed to match the standards set by its two predecessors. It won the award for Best Shooter at the 2011 Spike Video Game Awards, as well as Action Game of the Year at the 15th Annual Interactive Achievement Awards. It was a massive commercial success. Within 24 hours of going on sale, the game sold 6.5 million copies in the United States and the United Kingdom and grossed $400 million, contemporaneously making it the largest entertainment launch ever.

Title: Call of Duty: Black Ops II
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Black_Ops_II
Summary: Call of Duty: Black Ops II is a 2012 first-person shooter game developed by Treyarch and published by Activision. It was released for Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 on November 13, 2012, and for the Wii U on November 18 in North America and November 30 in PAL regions. Black Ops II is the ninth game in the Call of Duty franchise of video games, a sequel to the 2010 game Call of Duty: Black Ops and the first Call of Duty game for the Wii U. A corresponding game for the PlayStation Vita, Call of Duty: Black Ops: Declassified, was developed by nStigate Games and also released on November 13. Ports for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5, developed by Iron Galaxy Studios, were released on July 9, 2026.
In the 1980s, the player switches control between Alex Mason and Frank Woods, the former being one of the protagonists from Black Ops, while in 2025, the player assumes control of Mason's son, David (codenamed "Section"). Both time periods involve the characters pursuing Raul Menendez, a Nicaraguan arms dealer and later terrorist, who is responsible for kidnapping David in the 80s and later sparking a Second Cold War in 2025. The campaign features non-linear gameplay and has multiple endings. Locations featured in the game include Angola, Myanmar, Afghanistan, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Cayman Islands, Panama, Yemen, the United States, and Haiti.
Development for the game began soon after the release of Black Ops, with Activision promising that the follow-up would bring "meaningful innovation" to the Call of Duty franchise. Black Ops II is the first game in the series to feature futuristic warfare technology and the first to present branching storylines driven by player choice as well as selecting weapons before starting story mode missions. It also offers a 3D display option. The game was officially revealed on May 1, 2012, following a set of leaked information released during the previous months.
Black Ops II received mostly positive reviews from critics, with praise for its gameplay variety, story, multiplayer, Zombies mode, and villain, while its Strike Force missions received criticism. Retrospective reviewers consider it one of the best games in the series. The game was a commercial success; within 24 hours of its release, it grossed over $500 million. It had remained the largest entertainment launch of all time until the release of Grand Theft Auto V (2013). By November 2013, the game had sold over 24 million copies, making it one of the series' best-selling entries. 
Sequels to the game continued or expanded the storyline: Call of Duty: Black Ops III (2015) acts as a direct sequel; Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War (2020) is set between the events of Black Ops and Black Ops II; Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 (2024) is set after Black Ops II's flashback missions; and Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 (2025) is set after the events of Black Ops II.

Title: Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Advanced_Warfare
Summary: Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare is a 2014 first-person shooter game published by Activision.  The eleventh major installment in the Call of Duty series, the game was developed by Sledgehammer Games for PlayStation 4, Windows and Xbox One, while High Moon Studios developed the versions released on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, and Raven Software developed the game's multiplayer and the Exo-Zombies mode. It was Sledgehammer's first Call of Duty title as the primary developer.
Before the development of Advanced Warfare, Sledgehammer was originally working on a game set during the events of the Vietnam War. Development for Advanced Warfare began in late 2011, shortly before the release of Modern Warfare 3. The game became the first entry in the Call of Duty series since Call of Duty 2 to feature a game engine that was mostly re-written and built from scratch. For the game's single-player campaign mode, Sledgehammer employed veteran actors Troy Baker and Kevin Spacey in lead roles. The game's story features a futuristic setting, set between 2054 and 2061, and follows Jack Mitchell of the United States Marine Corps and his involvement with Atlas, a private military corporation that sells its services to the highest bidder.
Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare was released to a positive critical reception and was declared an improvement over its predecessor, Call of Duty: Ghosts. Many critics praised the visuals, voice acting, single-player campaign, and fast-paced gameplay, but some criticized the single-player campaign's plot as predictable. Retrospective reviews have generally remained positive, with the game generally placing in the top 10 in lists ranking the series' games. The game won several awards and was considered a commercial success.

Title: Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Infinite_Warfare
Summary: Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare is a 2016 first-person shooter game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. It is the thirteenth installment in the Call of Duty series and was released worldwide for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on November 4, 2016.
Development of Infinite Warfare began during 2014. It is the first title by Infinity Ward under the new three-year development cycle for the Call of Duty series. The game's campaign is centered around a war for the Solar System, which the Settlement Defense Front (SDF), a hostile force who are the main antagonists, are attempting to take over. The player takes control of Lieutenant Nick Reyes of the Special Combat Air Recon (SCAR). They have their own transforming fighter, named "Jackal", that they can customize as well as a central hub ship named Retribution.
Infinite Warfare's announcement trailer was noted for its strong negative reaction; at the time, it was the second-most disliked video on YouTube. Commentators attributed this to Call of Duty fans expressing frustration at the sci-fi direction the series had taken, specifically that the game and its predecessors had futuristic settings. Special editions of Infinite Warfare were released with a remastered version of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, titled Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered.
The game received generally positive reviews upon release, receiving praise for its gameplay, characters, and Zombies mode, but criticism for its multiplayer mode, while its single-player campaign received mixed opinions. Nevertheless, retrospective reviewers have praised the campaign as one of Call of Duty's finest, while criticizing the multiplayer mode. It has generally been placed below the top 10 on lists ranking the series' games. It was named as Best Shooter at E3 by Game Informer and was nominated for several awards. While Infinite Warfare underperformed in sales compared to previous Call of Duty titles, it was both the top-selling game in the US and UK in November 2016.

Title: Call of Duty: Black Ops 6
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Black_Ops_6
Summary: Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 is a 2024 first-person shooter video game co-developed by Treyarch and Raven Software and published by Activision. It is the twenty-first main installment of the Call of Duty series and is the seventh entry in the Black Ops sub-series, following Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War (2020). Set during Operation Desert Storm, Black Ops 6's single-player story follows rogue CIA operatives Troy Marshall and Frank Woods as they assemble a team of agents to hunt down Pantheon, a paramilitary group with covert ties to the agency. As with previous Call of Duty titles, the game also includes a multiplayer component and a new iteration of the cooperative round-based Zombies mode. 
Black Ops 6 had a four-year development cycle—the longest in Call of Duty history; a portion of the game's production was spent on rebuilding core aspects of Black Ops within the latest version of the Call of Duty game engine. An omnidirectional movement system was also introduced, allowing players to sprint, dive, and slide in any direction. Marketing for Black Ops 6 began in May 2024, through the release of live-action teaser trailers and the publishing of advertisements on the front pages of multiple newspaper outlets; a full reveal debuted during the 2024 Xbox Games Showcase event on June 9. The game was released on October 25, 2024, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.
Upon release, Black Ops 6 received generally favorable reviews from critics, achieved the largest launch weekend in the franchise's history, and was nominated for several accolades. All three modes were met with praise, with critics positively highlighting the new omnidirectional movement system. A sequel, titled Call of Duty: Black Ops 7, was released in November 2025.