Title: Howard University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Howard_University
Summary: Howard University is a private, historically black, federally chartered research university in Washington, D.C., United States. It is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity" and accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. It is the only HBCU with R1 designation.
Established in 1867, Howard is a nonsectarian institution located in the Shaw neighborhood. It offers undergraduate, graduate, and professional degrees in more than 120 programs.

Title: Florida A&M University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florida_A%26M_University
Summary: Florida A&M University (FAMU) is a public historically black land-grant university in Tallahassee, Florida, United States. Founded in 1887, it is the third-largest historically black university in the US by enrollment and the only public historically black university in Florida. It is a member of the State University System of Florida and is accredited to award baccalaureate, master's, and doctoral degrees by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
Florida A&M sports teams are known as the Rattlers, and compete in Division I of the NCAA.  They are a member of the Southwestern Athletic Conference (SWAC).

Title: Florida State University College of Fine Arts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florida_State_University_College_of_Fine_Arts
Summary: The Florida State University College of Fine Arts, located in Tallahassee, Florida, is one of sixteen colleges comprising the Florida State University (FSU).

Title: History of the University of Florida
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_University_of_Florida
Summary: The history of the University of Florida is firmly tied to the history of public education in the state of Florida.  The University of Florida originated as several distinct institutions that were consolidated to create a single state-supported university by the Buckman Act of 1905. The oldest of these was the East Florida Seminary, one of two seminaries of higher learning established by the Florida Legislature.  The East Florida Seminary opened in Ocala 1853, becoming the first state-supported institution of higher learning in the state of Florida. As it is the oldest of the modern University of Florida's predecessor institutions, the school traces its founding date to that year. The East Florida Seminary closed its Ocala campus at the outbreak of the American Civil War and reopened in Gainesville in 1866.
The other primary predecessor to the University of Florida was the Florida Agricultural College, established at Lake City in 1884 by Jordan Probst.  Florida Agricultural College was the first land-grant college in the state, and as its name implies, the small college emphasized the scientific training of agricultural and mechanical specialists.  In 1903, the Florida Legislature changed the name of Florida Agricultural College to the University of Florida in recognition of the legislature's desire to expand the curriculum beyond the college's original focus.
The Buckman Act of 1905 completely restructured Florida's higher education system. Six state-supported institutions were combined and reorganized into three schools segregated by race and gender. Four institutions – the East Florida Seminary, the University of Florida at Lake City (formerly Florida Agricultural College), the St. Petersburg Normal and Industrial School in St. Petersburg, and the South Florida Military College in Bartow – were consolidated to form the new University of the State of Florida, a school for white males. At the same time, the legislature created the Florida Female College and the State Normal School for Colored Students, both in Tallahassee. These schools would eventually evolve into Florida State University and Florida A&M University, respectively. Gainesville and Lake City competed to be the home of the new university. Gainesville was chosen, and construction on a new campus began just west of town in late 1905.
The University of Florida's student enrollment grew from 102 when it opened in Gainesville in 1906 to about 2,000 in 1930 and 10,000 in 1950. The school began accepting some white women students starting in 1924 and became fully coeducational as a result of the influx of new students brought in by the GI Bill after World War II. It became racially integrated in 1958. The school grew substantially in size and increased in academic prominence during the second half of the 20th century. It became a member of the Association of American Universities in 1985, enrollment topped 50,000 by 2000, and it was named one of the top five public universities in the United States in 2021.

Title: Randy Fine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randy_Fine
Summary: Randall Adam Fine (born April 20, 1974) is an American politician and former gambling industry executive serving as the U.S. representative for Florida's 6th congressional district since April 2025. A member of the Republican Party, he previously served in the Florida Senate from 2024 to 2025 and in the Florida House of Representatives from 2016 to 2024. His congressional district covers a six-county area that includes Daytona Beach.
Born in Arizona and raised in Kentucky, Fine graduated from Harvard University with a bachelor's degree in government and earned a Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) degree from Harvard Business School in 1996. After working for McKinsey & Company and later as a teaching fellow at Harvard, Fine became a corporate executive working in the casino gambling industry. In 2016, Fine was elected to the Florida House of Representatives, serving until his election to the Florida Senate in 2024. After Mike Waltz's resignation from Congress in 2025 to become U.S. national security advisor, Fine changed his residence and won the special election for the seat with the endorsement of President Donald Trump. He is a member of the House Freedom Caucus and the Republican Study Committee.
Fine has a long history of anti-Palestinian and anti-Muslim remarks. His comments have led to strong backlash, including calls to resign, from Democratic politicians and some conservatives.