Title: Leonardo da Vinci
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leonardo_da_Vinci
Summary: Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci (15 April 1452 – 2 May 1519) was an Italian polymath of the High Renaissance who was active as a painter, draughtsman, engineer, scientist, theorist, sculptor, and architect. While his fame initially rested on his achievements as a painter, he has also become known for his notebooks, in which he made drawings and notes on a variety of subjects, including anatomy, astronomy, botany, cartography, painting, and palaeontology. Leonardo is widely regarded as a genius who epitomised the Renaissance humanist ideal, and his collective works contributed to the development of European art to an extent rivalled only by that of his younger contemporary Michelangelo.
Born out of wedlock to a successful notary and a lower-class woman in (or near) Vinci in Tuscany, he was educated in Florence by the Italian painter and sculptor Andrea del Verrocchio. He began his career in the city, but then spent much time in the service of Ludovico Sforza in Milan. Later, he worked in Florence and Milan again, as well as briefly in Rome, all while attracting a large following of imitators and students. Upon the invitation of Francis I, he spent his last three years in France, where he died in 1519. Since his death, there has not been a time when his achievements, diverse interests, personal life, and empirical thinking have failed to incite interest and admiration, making him a frequent namesake and subject in culture.
Leonardo is identified as one of the greatest painters in the history of Western art and is often credited as the founder of the High Renaissance. Despite having many lost works and fewer than 25 attributed major works –  including numerous unfinished works –  he created some of the most influential paintings in the Western canon. The Mona Lisa is regarded as the world's most famous painting. The Last Supper is the most reproduced religious painting of all time and his Vitruvian Man drawing is also regarded as a cultural icon. In 2017, Salvator Mundi, attributed in whole or part to Leonardo, was sold at auction for US$450.3 million, setting a new record for the most expensive painting ever sold at public auction.
Revered for his technological ingenuity, he conceptualised flying machines, a type of armoured fighting vehicle, concentrated solar power, a ratio machine that could be used in an adding machine, and the double hull. Relatively few of his designs were constructed or were even feasible during his lifetime, as the modern scientific approaches to metallurgy and engineering were only in their infancy during the Renaissance. Some of his smaller inventions, however, entered the world of manufacturing unheralded, such as an automated bobbin winder and a machine for testing the tensile strength of wire. He made substantial discoveries in anatomy, civil engineering, hydrodynamics, geology, optics, and tribology, but he did not publish his findings and they had little to no direct influence on subsequent science.

Title: Rome Fiumicino Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rome_Fiumicino_Airport
Summary: Rome Fiumicino Leonardo da Vinci International Airport (Italian: Aeroporto internazionale di Roma-Fiumicino "Leonardo da Vinci") (IATA: FCO, ICAO: LIRF) is an international airport in Fiumicino, Italy, serving Rome, its metropolitan area, Vatican City and the wider Lazio region. It is the busiest airport in the country, the eighth-busiest airport in Europe and the world's 39th-busiest airport with over 51 million passengers served in 2025. It covers an area of 16 km2 (6.2 sq mi).
Fiumicino serves as the main hub for ITA Airways, the Italian flag carrier and the largest airline in the country, and Poste Air Cargo. It was previously the hub for Alitalia, the defunct airline that was Italy's largest and main flag carrier. It is also an operating base for several other airlines, such as Aeroitalia, easyJet, Neos, Ryanair, Vueling and Wizz Air. The airport is managed by Aeroporti di Roma (ADR), part of the Italian transport holding company Mundys. 
Opened in 1961, it is in Fiumicino, 30 km (19 mi) south of Rome, and is named for Italian polymath Leonardo da Vinci (1452–1519). Reproductions of his most famous works and inventions are displayed at the airport.

Title: Annunciation (Leonardo)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annunciation_(Leonardo)
Summary: The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Leonardo da Vinci, dated to c. 1472–1476. Leonardo's earliest extant major work, it was completed in Florence while he was an apprentice in the studio of Andrea del Verrocchio. The painting was made using oil and tempera on a large poplar panel and depicts the Annunciation, a popular biblical subject in 15th-century Florence. Since 1867 it has been housed in the Uffizi in Florence, the city where it was created. Though the work has been criticized for inaccuracies in its composition, it is among the best-known portrayals of the Annunciation in Christian art.

Title: The Life of Leonardo da Vinci
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Life_of_Leonardo_da_Vinci
Summary: La Vita di Leonardo da Vinci — in English, The Life of Leonardo da Vinci  — is a 1971 Italian miniseries created by Renato Castellani. The series is based largely on a biography in Giorgio Vasari's Le vite de' più eccellenti pittori, scultori e architettori.

Title: Da Vinci's Demons
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Da_Vinci%27s_Demons
Summary: Da Vinci's Demons is a historical drama television series that presents a fictional account of Leonardo da Vinci's early life. The series was conceived by David S. Goyer and stars Tom Riley in the title role. It was developed and produced in collaboration with BBC Worldwide and was shot in Wales. The series has been distributed to over 120 countries.
The show follows Leonardo as he is implicated in the political schemes of the Medici and Pazzi families and their contrasting relationships with the Catholic Church. These events occur alongside Leonardo's quest to obtain a mystical text called the Book of Leaves, which leads him to become entangled with a cult known as the Sons of Mithras.
The series premiered in the United States on Starz on 12 April 2013, and its second season premiered on 22 March 2014. The series was renewed for a third season, which premiered on 24 October 2015. On 23 July 2015, Starz announced that the third season would be the show's last. However, Goyer has left it open for a miniseries return.