Title: TOP500
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TOP500
Summary: The TOP500 project ranks and details the 500 most powerful non-distributed computer systems in the world. The project was started in 1993 and publishes an updated list of the supercomputers twice a year. The first of these updates always coincides with the International Supercomputing Conference in June, and the second is presented at the ACM/IEEE Supercomputing Conference in November. The project aims to provide a reliable basis for tracking and detecting trends in high-performance computing and bases rankings on HPL benchmarks, a portable implementation of the high-performance LINPACK benchmark written in Fortran for distributed-memory computers.
The most recent edition of TOP500 was published in June 2026. As of June 2026, China's LineShine is the most powerful supercomputer in the TOP500, reaching 2,198 petaFlops on the LINPACK benchmarks. As of submitted data until June 2026, the United States has the highest number of systems with 161 supercomputers; Japan is in second place with 44, and Germany is the third place with 41; the United States has by far the highest share of total computing power on the list (37.5%). Due to secrecy of the latest Chinese programs, publicly known supercomputer performance share in China represents only 2% that of global as of June 2025.
The TOP500 list is compiled by Jack Dongarra of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Erich Strohmaier and Horst Simon of the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL), and, until his death in 2014, Hans Meuer of the University of Mannheim, Germany. The TOP500 project also includes lists such as Green500 (measuring energy efficiency) and HPCG (measuring I/O bandwidth).

Title: ChromeOS
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ChromeOS
Summary: ChromeOS (sometimes styled as chromeOS and formerly styled as Chrome OS) is a proprietary operating system designed and developed by Google. It is derived from the open-source ChromiumOS operating system (which itself is derived from Gentoo Linux), and uses the Google Chrome web browser as its principal user interface. 
Google announced the project in July 2009, initially describing it as an operating system where applications and user data would reside in the cloud. ChromeOS was used primarily to run web applications. The operating system first shipped with Chromebooks in 2011. It is also offered since 2020 as an installable Linux distribution as ChromeOS Flex.
ChromeOS supports progressive web applications, Android apps from Google Play and Linux applications.
In 2025, Google announced that ChromeOS would merge with their mobile Android operating system as part of a new project which uses the Android system instead of the old "vanilla" Linux kernel based on Gentoo.

Title: HarmonyOS
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HarmonyOS
Summary: HarmonyOS (HMOS) (Chinese: 鸿蒙操作系统; pinyin: Hóngméng Cāozuò Xìtǒng; trans. "Vast Mist") is a distributed operating system developed by Huawei for smartphones, tablets, smart TVs, smart watches, personal computers and other smart devices. It has a microkernel design with a single framework: the operating system selects suitable kernels from the abstraction layer in the case of devices that use diverse resources. The latest stable version is HarmonyOS 6; it was released on 25 November 2025.
From 2019 to 2024, versions 1 to 4.3 (4.5 TV) of the operating system were built by integrating the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) with OpenHarmony, allowing it to support both HarmonyOS and Android apps. The current iteration of HarmonyOS became known as HarmonyOS NEXT (later it was renamed HarmonyOS 5 in launched of Pura X). HarmonyOS NEXT was announced on August 4, 2023, and officially launched on October 22, 2024. It also replaced the OpenHarmony multi-kernel system with its own HongMeng Kernel at its core and removed all Android code. Since version 5, HarmonyOS only supports apps in its native "App" format.
HarmonyOS 5.x+ both discards the common Unix-like Linux kernel and replaces the previous multiple-kernel, kernel agnostic system from OpenHarmony with its own bespoke HarmonyOS microkernel as a single framework.
HarmonyOS was officially launched by Huawei, and first used in Honor smart TVs, in August 2019. It was later used in Huawei wireless routers, IoT in 2020, followed by smartphones, tablets and smartwatches from June 2021.
In May 2025, the first notebook with HarmonyOS was launched by Huawei, featuring "HarmonyOS PC", i.e. HarmonyOS 5 for the personal computer form factor.
On November 19, 2025, the first 2-in-1 with HarmonyOS 5.1 was launched by Huawei, with MatePad Edge supporting both tablet mode and full desktop counterpart in line with Huawei MateBook PC line.

Title: El Capitan (supercomputer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Capitan_(supercomputer)
Summary: Hewlett Packard Enterprise El Capitan is an exascale supercomputer, hosted at  Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in Livermore, California, United States, that became operational in 2024. It is based on the Cray EX Shasta architecture.
El Capitan was the world's fastest supercomputer in the TOP500 rankings from November 2024 to June 2026, displacing Frontier at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. El Capitan is the third exascale system deployed by the United States and its primary purpose is to support the stockpile stewardship program of the US National Nuclear Security Administration.
It was surpassed as the fastest supercomputer in the world by LineShine.

Title: List of video games released in 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_video_games_released_in_2024
Summary: The following is a comprehensive index of all games released in 2024, sorted chronologically by release date, and divided by quarter. Information regarding  developer, publisher, operating system, genre and type of release is provided where available
For a summary of 2024 in video games as a whole, see 2024 in video games.