Title: DC Universe Animated Original Movies
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DC_Universe_Animated_Original_Movies
Summary: The DC Universe Animated Original Movies (DCUAOM; also known as DC Universe Original Movies or DC Universe Movies or DC Animated Movies) are a series of American direct-to-video superhero animated films based on DC Comics characters and stories. From 2007 to 2022, films were produced primarily by Warner Bros. Animation but subsequently fell under DC Studios. Many films are stand-alone projects that are either adaptations of popular works or original stories.
From 2013 to 2024, the DC Animated Movie Universe was a subset of this series. The first story arc featured several films that took place in a shared universe, influenced predominantly by "The New 52". Following the first arc's conclusion with Justice League Dark: Apokolips War (2020), the "Tomorrowverse" series was launched beginning with Superman: Man of Tomorrow that same year and ended with a trilogy, Justice League: Crisis on Infinite Earths (2024). As of 2024, the DCUAOM line released 60 films that made a total of $257 million in sales in the United States and Canada, an average of $5.4 million per film.

Title: The Super Mario Bros. Movie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Super_Mario_Bros._Movie
Summary: The Super Mario Bros. Movie is a 2023 American animated adventure comedy film based on Nintendo's Mario video game franchise. Directed by Aaron Horvath and Michael Jelenic and written by Matthew Fogel, the film stars an ensemble voice cast led by Chris Pratt, Anya Taylor-Joy, Charlie Day, Jack Black, Keegan-Michael Key, Seth Rogen, and Fred Armisen. It was produced by Illumination and Nintendo. The film follows brothers Mario (Pratt) and Luigi (Day), two Italian-American plumbers who get separated after being transported to another world and become entangled in a war between the Mushroom Kingdom, led by Princess Peach (Taylor-Joy), and the Dark Lands, led by the King of the Koopas, Bowser (Black).
As a result of the critical and commercial failure of the live-action film Super Mario Bros. (1993), Nintendo became reluctant to license its intellectual properties for film adaptations. Despite this, Mario creator Shigeru Miyamoto became interested in developing another film during the development of the Virtual Console service. Through Nintendo's work with Universal Parks & Resorts to create Super Nintendo World, he met with Illumination CEO Chris Meledandri. By 2016, they were discussing a Mario film and, in January 2018, Nintendo announced that they would produce it with Illumination and Universal. Production was underway by 2020, and the cast was announced in September 2021.
The Super Mario Bros. Movie premiered at Regal LA Live on April 1, 2023, and was released in the United States on April 5, by Universal Pictures. The film received mixed reviews from critics, and grossed $1.360 billion worldwide, breaking multiple box-office records, including becoming the highest-grossing film based on a video game and the first film based on a video game to reach the billion-dollar mark. It finished its theatrical run as the second-highest-grossing film of 2023, the third-highest-grossing animated film, the 15th-highest-grossing film of all time, and the highest-grossing film produced by Illumination. At the 81st Golden Globe Awards, the film received nominations for Best Animated Feature Film, Best Original Song, and Cinematic Box Office Achievement, a category introduced at the same ceremony. A sequel, The Super Mario Galaxy Movie, was released in 2026.

Title: The Garfield Movie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Garfield_Movie
Summary: The Garfield Movie is a 2024 animated adventure comedy film based on the comic strip Garfield created by Jim Davis. Directed by Mark Dindal and written by Paul A. Kaplan, Mark Torgove, and David Reynolds, it is the third theatrical Garfield film adaptation and sixth overall. This is the first Garfield film since Garfield's Pet Force, which was released 15 years prior. The film features the voices of Chris Pratt as Garfield and Samuel L. Jackson as his father, alongside Hannah Waddingham, Ving Rhames, Nicholas Hoult, Cecily Strong, Harvey Guillén, Brett Goldstein, Bowen Yang, and Snoop Dogg. In the film, Garfield is reunited with his long-lost father, a street cat named Vic, before being forced into joining him on a high-stakes adventure.
Development on The Garfield Movie began at Alcon Entertainment in 2016. Dindal was announced as the film's director in November 2018, and pre-production began the following month. By 2021, Pratt had been cast as Garfield, with the rest of the cast joining the following year. The film was animated by DNEG Animation, while John Debney, a frequent collaborator of Dindal, composed the score. 
The Garfield Movie premiered at Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles on May 19, 2024, and was released In the United States on May 24, by Sony Pictures Releasing. The film received generally mixed-to-negative reviews from critics but was a commercial success, grossing $257 million against a $60 million budget. It was nominated at the 2024 Kids' Choice Awards for Favorite Animated Movie. A sequel is in development.

Title: List of animated feature films of 2026
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_animated_feature_films_of_2026
Summary: This is a list of animated feature films in 2026.

Title: Flow (2024 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flow_(2024_film)
Summary: Flow (Latvian: Straume) is a 2024 independent animated dystopian adventure film directed by Gints Zilbalodis, written and produced by Zilbalodis and Matīss Kaža. A Latvian, French, and Belgian co-production, it features no dialogue and follows a cat trying to survive along with other animals in a seemingly post-apocalyptic world as the water level dramatically rises.
Production of Flow started in 2019 and lasted five and a half years. The animation was done using the free and open-source software Blender. Jacques Tati and Future Boy Conan served as inspirations for the film. No storyboards were used for the production, and there are no deleted scenes.
Flow premiered on 22 May 2024 at the Cannes Film Festival in the Un Certain Regard section and was released in Latvian theaters on 29 August. It received critical acclaim and broke several Latvian box-office records, becoming the most-viewed film in Latvian theaters in history. At the 97th Academy Awards, Flow won Best Animated Feature. It was also nominated for Best International Feature Film as Latvia's submission, becoming the first film from Latvia to receive an Academy Award nomination and a win. Flow also won the Golden Globe Award for Best Animated Feature Film. Both of the award statuettes were put on display at the Latvian National Museum of Art.