Title: Omaha, Nebraska
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Omaha,_Nebraska
Summary: Omaha is the most populous city in the U.S. state of Nebraska. It is located in the Midwestern United States along the Missouri River, about 10 mi (15 km) north of the mouth of the Platte River. Omaha had a population of 486,051 at the 2020 census, and with a 2025 population estimate of 488,797, it is the 42nd-most populous U.S. city. The eight-county Omaha–Council Bluffs metropolitan area extending into Iowa has approximately 1 million residents, the 55th-largest metropolitan area in the U.S. It is the county seat of Douglas County.
Omaha's pioneer period began in 1854, when the city was founded along the Missouri River by speculators from neighboring Council Bluffs, Iowa. It originally comprised a crossing called Lone Tree Ferry earning the city its nickname, the "Gateway to the West". Omaha introduced this new West to the world in 1898, when it played host to the World's Fair, dubbed the Trans-Mississippi Exposition. During the 19th century, Omaha's central location in the United States spurred the city to become an important national transportation hub. Throughout the rest of the 19th century, the transportation and jobbing sectors were important in the city, along with its railroads and breweries. In the 20th century, the Omaha Stockyards, once the world's largest, and its meatpacking plants gained international prominence.
Omaha is home to the headquarters of four Fortune 500 companies: Berkshire Hathaway, Kiewit Corporation, Mutual of Omaha, and Union Pacific Corporation. Other companies headquartered in the city include First National Bank of Omaha, Gallup, Inc., Green Plains, Intrado, Valmont Industries, Werner Enterprises, WoodmenLife, and three of the nation's ten largest architecture and engineering firms (DLR Group, HDR, Inc., and Leo A Daly). Notable cultural institutions include the Henry Doorly Zoo and Aquarium, Old Market, Durham Museum, Lauritzen Gardens, and the annual College World Series. Modern Omaha inventions include the Reuben sandwich;
cake mix, developed by Duncan Hines; center-pivot irrigation; Raisin Bran; the first ski lift in the U.S.; the Top 40 radio format, which was first used in the U.S. at KOWH Radio; and the TV dinner.

Title: University of Nebraska system
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Nebraska_system
Summary: The University of Nebraska system is the public university system of the U.S. state of Nebraska. The system was formed in 1968 from the merger of the University of Nebraska and the University of Omaha. The system has since expanded to include the University of Nebraska at Kearney, Nebraska College of Technical Agriculture, University of Nebraska Medical Center, and an online high school. Its flagship campus is the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.

Title: Creighton University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creighton_University
Summary: Creighton University () is a private research university in Omaha, Nebraska, United States. Founded by the Society of Jesus in 1878, the university enrolled 8,838 undergraduate and graduate students as of fall 2024. In addition to the main 140-acre (57 ha) campus just outside of downtown Omaha, the university operates the Creighton University Medical Center and has a second campus focused on health sciences in Phoenix, Arizona. It is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission and is classified among "R2: Doctoral Universities – High research activity". Its athletic teams compete in NCAA Division I as the Creighton Bluejays.

Title: University of Nebraska Omaha
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Nebraska_Omaha
Summary: The University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO) is a public research university in Omaha, Nebraska, United States. Founded in 1908 by faculty from the Omaha Presbyterian Theological Seminary as a private non-sectarian college, the university was originally known as the University of Omaha. Originally meant to provide a Christian-based education free from ecclesiastical control, the university served as a strong alternative to the city's many successful religiously-affiliated institutions.
Since the year 2000, the university has more than tripled its student housing and opened a 450-bed student dormitory and academic space on its Scott Campus in 2017. It has also recently constructed modern facilities for its engineering, information technology, business, and biomechanics programs. UNO currently offers more than 200 programs of study across six different colleges, and has over 60 classroom, student, athletic, and research facilities spread across three campuses. It is classified among "R2: Doctoral Universities – High research activity".
The Omaha Mavericks compete in 15 NCAA Division I sports in both the NCHC and Summit League conferences. The ice hockey, basketball, and volleyball teams compete in Baxter Arena on the university's Center Campus. Opened in 2021, Connie Claussen Field is the home of the softball team and the baseball team plays at Tal Anderson Field; both are located at Maverick Park, west of Baxter Arena. UNO enjoyed national attention in 2015, when the hockey team reached the national semifinal (Frozen Four) of the NCAA tournament for the first time.

Title: University of Nebraska Medical Center
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Nebraska_Medical_Center
Summary: The University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC) is a public academic health science center in Omaha, Nebraska, United States. Founded in 1869 and chartered as a private medical college in 1881, UNMC became part of the University of Nebraska in 1902. Rapidly expanding in the early 20th century, the university founded a hospital, dental college, pharmacy college, college of nursing, and college of medicine. It later added colleges of public health and allied health professions. One of Omaha's top employers, UNMC had an annual budget of $1.066 billion for 2025 to 2026 and an economic impact of $5.9 billion.