Title: Formula One
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formula_One
Summary: Formula One (F1) is the highest class of worldwide racing for open-wheel, single-seater formula racing cars run by the Formula One Group and sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The FIA Formula One World Championship has been one of the world's premier forms of motorsport since its inaugural running in 1950 and is often considered to be the pinnacle of motorsport. The word formula in the name refers to the set of rules all participant cars must follow. A Formula One season consists of a series of races, known as Grands Prix. Grands Prix take place in multiple countries and continents on either purpose-built circuits or closed roads, as street circuits.
A points scoring system is used at Grands Prix to determine two annual World Championships: one for the drivers, and one for the constructors—now synonymous with teams. Each driver must hold a valid Super Licence, the highest class of racing licence the FIA issues, and the races must be held on Grade One tracks, the highest grade rating the FIA issues for circuits.
The commercial rights to F1 are leased to Liberty Media Corporation, acquired in 2017 for an estimated $8 billion, previously owned by British business magnate Bernie Ecclestone. The new ownership added five Grands Prix to the calendar: Miami, Las Vegas, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Dutch.
Formula One cars are the world's fastest regulated road-course racing cars, owing to high cornering speeds achieved by generating large amounts of aerodynamic downforce, most of which is generated by front and rear wings, as well as underbody tunnels. The cars depend on electronics, aerodynamics, suspension, and tyres. Traction control, launch control, automatic shifting, and other electronic driving aids were first banned in 1994. They were briefly reintroduced in 2001 but were banned once more in 2004 and later 2008.
The cost cap as of the 2026 season stands at US$215 million, but the actual total cost of running an F1 team often exceeds that due to exclusions outside the cost cap. It is because of this that Formula One's financial and political battles are widely reported. The United Kingdom is the hub of Formula One racing, with six out of the eleven teams based there.

Title: Ayrton Senna
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ayrton_Senna
Summary: Ayrton Senna da Silva (Brazilian Portuguese: [aˈiʁtõ ˈsẽnɐ dɐ ˈsiwvɐ] ; 21 March 1960 – 1 May 1994) was a Brazilian racing driver and philanthropist who competed in Formula One from 1984 to 1994. Senna won three Formula One World Drivers' Championship titles with McLaren, and—at the time of his death—held the record for most pole positions (65), among others; he won 41 Grands Prix across 11 seasons.
Born and raised in São Paulo, Senna began competitive kart racing aged 13; his first go-kart was built by his father using a lawnmower engine. After twice finishing runner-up at the Karting World Championship, Senna progressed to Formula Ford in 1981, dominating the British and European championships in his debut seasons. He then won the 1983 British Formula Three Championship amidst a close title battle with Martin Brundle, further winning the Macau Grand Prix that year. Senna signed for Toleman in 1984, making his Formula One debut at the Brazilian Grand Prix. After scoring several podium finishes in his rookie season, Senna moved to Lotus in 1985 to replace Nigel Mansell, taking his maiden pole position and victory at the rain-affected Portuguese Grand Prix, a feat he repeated in Belgium. He remained at Lotus for his 1986 and 1987 campaigns, scoring multiple wins in each and finishing third in the latter World Drivers' Championship.
Senna signed for McLaren in 1988 to partner Alain Prost; together, they won 15 of 16 Grands Prix held that season—driving the Honda-powered MP4/4—with Senna taking his maiden championship by three points after winning a then-record eight Grands Prix. Their fierce rivalry culminated in title-deciding collisions at Suzuka in 1989 and 1990, despite Prost's move to Ferrari in the latter, with Prost winning the former title and Senna taking the following. Senna took seven victories, including his home Grand Prix in Brazil, as he secured his third title in 1991. The dominant Williams–Renault combination prevailed throughout his remaining two seasons at McLaren, with Senna achieving several race wins in each, including his record-breaking sixth Monaco Grand Prix victory in 1993 on his way to again finishing runner-up to Prost in the championship. Senna negotiated a move to Williams for his 1994 campaign, replacing the retired Prost to partner Damon Hill.
During the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix at Imola, Senna was killed in a crash whilst leading the race, driving the Williams FW16. His state funeral was attended by about 3 million people. 
Following subsequent safety reforms, he was the last fatality in the Formula One World Championship until Jules Bianchi in 2014. Senna achieved 41 wins, 65 pole positions, 19 fastest laps and 80 podiums in Formula One; he remains a legendary figure within motorsport for his raw speed and uncompromising driving style, as well as his philanthropy, and is frequently cited as a national hero of Brazil. He was also widely acclaimed for his wet-weather performances, such as at the 1984 Monaco, 1985 Portuguese and 1993 European Grands Prix. Senna was inducted into the International Motorsports Hall of Fame in 2000 and into the Automotive Hall of Fame in 2025.

Title: Lewis Hamilton
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Hamilton
Summary: Sir Lewis Carl Davidson Hamilton (born 7 January 1985) is a British racing driver who competes in Formula One for Ferrari. Hamilton has won a joint-record seven Formula One World Drivers' Championship titles—tied with Michael Schumacher—and holds the records for most wins (106), pole positions (104), and podium finishes (207), among others.
Born and raised in Stevenage, Hamilton began his career in karting at age six, winning several national titles and attracting the attention of Ron Dennis, who signed him to the McLaren-Mercedes Young Driver Programme in 1998. After winning the Karting World Cup and European Championship in 2000, Hamilton progressed to junior formulae, where his successes included winning the Formula 3 Euro Series and the GP2 Series. He subsequently signed for McLaren in 2007, becoming the first black driver to compete in Formula One at the Australian Grand Prix. In his rookie season, Hamilton won four Grands Prix and set several records as he finished runner-up to Kimi Räikkönen by one point and tied with his teammate Fernando Alonso. Hamilton won his maiden title in 2008, making a title-deciding overtake on the last lap of the last race of the season to become the then-youngest World Drivers' Champion. The Red Bull–Renault combination prevailed throughout his remaining four seasons at McLaren, with Hamilton achieving multiple race wins in each, including his involvement in a four-way title battle in 2010.
Hamilton signed for Mercedes in 2013 to partner his old karting teammate Nico Rosberg, ending his 15-year association with McLaren. Following his maiden victory with the team at the Hungarian Grand Prix, new engine regulations the following season saw Mercedes emerge as the dominant force in Formula One. Over the next three seasons, Hamilton and Rosberg won 51 of 59 Grands Prix amidst their fierce rivalry, with Hamilton winning the former titles in 2014 and 2015, and Rosberg winning the latter. After Rosberg's retirement, Hamilton twice overturned mid-season point deficits to Sebastian Vettel of Ferrari to claim his fourth and fifth titles in 2017 and 2018. Hamilton won his sixth title in 2019, before breaking several records across his 2020 campaign—including the all-time win record at the Portuguese Grand Prix—to claim his record-equalling seventh. Hamilton became the first driver to surpass 100 race wins and pole positions in 2021, ending runner-up to Max Verstappen amidst a disputed finish. Following winless campaigns in 2022 and 2023, he took his record ninth British Grand Prix victory in 2024, his final season with Mercedes. Hamilton signed for Ferrari in 2025, where he won his first Grand Prix in 2026 and is contracted to remain until at least the end of 2027.
Hamilton has been credited with furthering Formula One's global following by appealing to a broader audience outside the sport, in part due to his high-profile lifestyle, amongst his environmental and social activism. He has also become a prominent advocate in support of racial justice and increased diversity in motorsport. Hamilton was listed in the 2020 issue of Time as one of the 100 most influential people globally, was named the most influential black Briton in the Powerlist 2021, and was knighted by Elizabeth II in the 2021 New Year Honours.

Title: Max Verstappen
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Max_Verstappen
Summary: Max Emilian Verstappen (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈmɑks fɛrˈstɑpə(n)]; born 30 September 1997) is a Dutch and Belgian racing driver who competes under the Dutch flag in Formula One for Red Bull Racing. Verstappen has won four Formula One World Drivers' Championship titles, which he won consecutively from 2021 to 2024 with Red Bull, and has won 71 Grands Prix across 12 seasons.
Born in Hasselt and raised in Maaseik, Verstappen is the son of Dutch former Formula One driver Jos Verstappen and Belgian former kart racer Sophie Kumpen. After a successful karting career—culminating in his record-breaking 2013 season—Verstappen graduated to junior formulae. Progressing directly to FIA European Formula 3, Verstappen broke several records on his way to third in the championship in his rookie season with Van Amersfoort. Aged 17, Verstappen signed for Toro Rosso in 2015 as part of the Red Bull Junior Team, becoming the youngest driver in Formula One history at the Australian Grand Prix. Following several points finishes in his debut season, Verstappen retained his seat for 2016 before being promoted to parent team Red Bull to partner Daniel Ricciardo after four rounds. On debut for Red Bull, aged 18, Verstappen won the Spanish Grand Prix, becoming the youngest-ever driver to win a Formula One Grand Prix. Verstappen achieved multiple race wins in his 2017 and 2018 campaigns, before finishing third in both the 2019 and 2020 World Drivers' Championships under Honda power.
Verstappen won his maiden title in 2021 after overtaking Lewis Hamilton on the final lap of the last race of the season, becoming the first World Drivers' Champion from the Netherlands. Verstappen won the next two championships in 2022 and 2023, overturning the largest points deficit in Formula One history in the former and breaking numerous records across both seasons. He secured his fourth consecutive title in 2024 after winning nine Grands Prix, including a widely acclaimed wet-weather performance in São Paulo, to become the first driver to win the championship driving for a third-placed constructor in 41 years. He finished runner-up by two points in a three-way title battle with Lando Norris and Oscar Piastri in 2025.
As of the 2026 Spanish Grand Prix, Verstappen has achieved 71 race wins, 48 pole positions, 37 fastest laps, and 133 podiums in Formula One. In addition to being the youngest Grand Prix winner, he holds several Formula One records, including the most wins in a season (19), the most podium finishes in a season (21), the most consecutive wins (10), and the most consecutive pole positions (8, shared with Ayrton Senna). Verstappen is contracted to remain at Red Bull until at least the end of the 2030 season. Outside of Formula One, Verstappen runs the Verstappen Racing team, has competed in sports car racing events, and has also competed professionally in sim racing since 2015, winning several marquee iRacing events. Verstappen was listed in the 2024 issue of Time as one of the 100 most influential people globally, and was appointed an Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau in 2022.

Title: Kimi Antonelli
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kimi_Antonelli
Summary: Andrea Kimi Antonelli (Italian: [anˈdrɛːa ˈkiːmi antoˈnɛlli]; born 25 August 2006) is an Italian racing driver who competes in Formula One for Mercedes. Antonelli has won eight Formula One Grands Prix since his debut in 2025.
Born and raised in Bologna, Antonelli is the son of sportscar racing driver Marco Antonelli. After a successful karting career—culminating in back-to-back victories at the senior European Championship in 2020 and 2021—Antonelli graduated to junior formulae. He won his first titles in Italian and ADAC F4 in 2022 with Prema; in addition to becoming a race-winner in Italian GT3, he also won a gold medal for Italy at the FIA Motorsport Games. He then claimed both the Formula Regional European and Middle East Championships before progressing to FIA Formula 2 in 2024, winning two races as he finished sixth.
A member of the Mercedes Junior Team since 2019, Antonelli signed for Mercedes in 2025, replacing Lewis Hamilton to partner George Russell and becoming the third-youngest driver in Formula One history at the Australian Grand Prix, aged 18; he achieved his maiden podium finish in his rookie season at the Canadian Grand Prix and became the youngest driver to set a fastest lap. Mercedes emerged as the lead contender in 2026, with Antonelli winning eight Grands Prix—including his home Grand Prix in Italy—while becoming the youngest-ever polesitter in China and the youngest World Drivers' Championship leader in Japan.
As of the 2026 Spanish Grand Prix, Antonelli has achieved eight race wins, six pole positions, ten fastest laps, and fifteen podiums in Formula One. In addition to the accolades above, he holds several Formula One records, including being the youngest driver to lead a lap and to score a grand chelem. Antonelli is contracted to remain at Mercedes until at least the end of the 2027 season.