Title: Daniel Radcliffe
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Radcliffe
Summary: Daniel Jacob Radcliffe (born 23 July 1989) is an English actor best known for portraying Harry Potter in all eight films of the Harry Potter film series from 2001 to 2011. Radcliffe's films as a leading actor have grossed over $8.38 billion worldwide. His accolades include a Critics' Choice Award and a Tony Award, in addition to nominations for a BAFTA Award, two Grammy Awards, and a Primetime Emmy Award. He was featured on the Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe list of 2019.
Radcliffe branched out to stage acting in 2007, starring in the West End and Broadway productions of Equus. He returned to Broadway in the musical How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying (2011), earning a Grammy Award nomination. His other Broadway roles include Martin McDonagh's drama The Cripple of Inishmaan (2014), Stephen Sondheim's musical Merrily We Roll Along (2023), the latter of which earned him a Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Musical and another Grammy nomination, and a second Tony Award-nominated role in Every Brilliant Thing (2026). He also starred in the London revivals of Tom Stoppard's Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead (2017) and Samuel Beckett's Endgame (2020).
Radcliffe also expanded his film roles, acting in a variety of genres such as the horror film The Woman in Black (2012), surreal drama Swiss Army Man (2016), thriller Now You See Me 2 (2016), and comedy The Lost City (2022). He also portrayed Allen Ginsberg in the biopic Kill Your Darlings (2013) and "Weird Al" Yankovic in the musical parody Weird: The Al Yankovic Story (2022). The latter earned him nominations for a Primetime Emmy Award and a British Academy Television Award. He also played multiple roles in the anthology comedy series Miracle Workers from 2019 to 2023.
Radcliffe has contributed to various charities, including Demelza Hospice Care for Children and the Trevor Project. The latter awarded him its Hero Award in 2011 for his advocacy with LGBTQ youth. Radcliffe is in a long-term relationship with actress Erin Darke since 2012 with whom he has a son.

Title: List of people from California
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_people_from_California
Summary: The notable people from the U.S. state of California listed here include those who were born and raised in, lived in, or spent portions of their lives in California, or for whom California is a significant part of their identity.

Title: Lin-Manuel Miranda
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lin-Manuel_Miranda
Summary: Lin-Manuel Miranda ( man-WELL; born January 16, 1980) is an American songwriter, actor, filmmaker, librettist, and producer. He created the Broadway musicals In the Heights and Hamilton, and the soundtracks for the animated films Moana, Vivo, and Encanto. He has received numerous accolades including a Pulitzer Prize for Drama, three Tony Awards, two Laurence Olivier Awards, two Emmy Awards, and five Grammy Awards, along with nominations for two Academy Awards. He received the Kennedy Center Honor in 2018.
Miranda made his Broadway debut in 2008, writing the music and lyrics for and starring in the musical In the Heights, which won the Tony Award for Best Musical and Best Original Score and the Grammy Award for Best Musical Theater Album. It was later adapted as a 2021 film of the same name. Miranda returned to Broadway in 2015, writing the script, music, and lyrics, as well as starring in the musical Hamilton, which was praised by critics and became a popular culture phenomenon. Hamilton won the Pulitzer Prize and was nominated for a record 16 Tonys and won 11, including Miranda's first win for the Best Book of a Musical. The Hamilton cast recording spent 10 weeks atop Billboard's Top Rap Albums chart and became the eleventh-biggest album of the 2010s.
A frequent collaborator of the Walt Disney Company, Miranda has written original songs for the studio. He gained two Oscar nominations for "How Far I'll Go" and "Dos Oruguitas" from Moana and Encanto, respectively. The song "We Don't Talk About Bruno" from Encanto broke various records and marked Miranda's first number-one song on the US  Billboard Hot 100 and the UK Singles charts. He starred as Jack in the musical fantasy Mary Poppins Returns (2018), for which he was nominated for a Golden Globe. For his performance in the Disney+ live stage recording of Hamilton released in 2020, he received a Golden Globe and Primetime Emmy nomination. Miranda debuted as a film director with Tick, Tick... Boom!.
His television work includes recurring roles on The Electric Company (2009–2010) and His Dark Materials (2019–2022). Miranda received Primetime Emmy Award-nominations for hosting Saturday Night Live in 2016, and guest starring in Curb Your Enthusiasm in 2018. He has been politically active on behalf of Puerto Rico. Miranda met with politicians in 2016 to speak out in favor of debt relief for Puerto Rico and raised funds for rescue efforts and disaster relief after Hurricane Maria in 2017.

Title: 74th Primetime Emmy Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/74th_Primetime_Emmy_Awards
Summary: The 74th Primetime Emmy Awards honored the best in American prime time television programming from June 1, 2021, until May 31, 2022, as chosen by the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences. The awards ceremony was held live on September 12, 2022, and was preceded by the 74th Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards on September 3 and 4, at the Microsoft Theater in Downtown Los Angeles, California. The ceremony was broadcast in the United States on NBC and Peacock. During the ceremony, Emmy Awards were handed out in 25 categories. The event was produced through Done and Dusted and Hudlin Entertainment and was directed by Hamish Hamilton. Kenan Thompson was the ceremony's host.
At the main ceremony, The White Lotus received the most awards with five, including Outstanding Limited or Anthology Series. Ted Lasso won four awards, including its second consecutive award for Outstanding Comedy Series, while Abbott Elementary won two awards and Hacks won one. Succession led all dramas with three wins, including its second Outstanding Drama Series win; Squid Game received two awards, and Euphoria and Ozark received one each. Other winning programs include Dopesick, The Dropout, Jerrod Carmichael: Rothaniel, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, Lizzo's Watch Out for the Big Grrrls, and Saturday Night Live. Including Creative Arts Emmys, The White Lotus led all programs with 10 wins; HBO and HBO Max led all networks and platforms with 38 total wins.

Title: List of Kamala Harris 2024 presidential campaign non-political endorsements
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Kamala_Harris_2024_presidential_campaign_non-political_endorsements
Summary: This is a list of notable non-political figures and organizations that endorsed the Kamala Harris 2024 presidential campaign.