Title: EA Sports FC 26
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EA_Sports_FC_26
Summary: EA Sports FC 26 is an association football simulation video game developed by EA Vancouver and EA Romania and published by Electronic Arts. It was released worldwide on 26 September 2025 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, Nintendo Switch, Nintendo Switch 2, and Amazon Luna. It is the third installment in the EA Sports FC series following EA FC 24 and EA FC 25 and the 33rd overall installment of EA Sports' football simulation games. The ultimate edition has Zlatan Ibrahimovic on the cover whilst the standard edition sees the return of Jude Bellingham and the introduction of Jamal Musiala.

Title: Ted Lasso
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ted_Lasso
Summary: Ted Lasso ( LASS-oh) is an American sports comedy-drama television series developed by Jason Sudeikis, Bill Lawrence, Brendan Hunt, and Joe Kelly. It is based on a character Sudeikis portrayed in a series of promotional media for NBC Sports' coverage of England's football Premier League. The show follows Ted Lasso, an American college football coach who is hired to coach an English football team, A.F.C. Richmond, whose owner secretly hopes his inexperience will lead it to failure; instead, Lasso's folksy, optimistic leadership proves unexpectedly successful. The first season of ten episodes premiered on Apple TV+ on August 14, 2020, with the first three episodes releasing immediately. A second season of twelve episodes followed on July 23, 2021, with the third season released on March 15, 2023, which was intended to be the final season. It was announced in March 2025 that the series had been renewed for a fourth season, which premiered on August 5, 2026.
The series has received critical acclaim, with particular praise for its performances (notably Sudeikis, Hannah Waddingham, Phil Dunster, Brett Goldstein, Nick Mohammed, and Juno Temple), humor, writing, themes, and uplifting tone. Among other accolades, its first season was nominated for 20 Primetime Emmy Awards, becoming the most nominated first-season comedy in Emmy history. Sudeikis, Waddingham, and Goldstein won for their performances, and the series won the 2021 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series. Sudeikis also won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Musical or Comedy and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Comedy Series. The series repeated all three of those award wins the next year.

Title: Kings League
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kings_League
Summary: The Kings League is a seven-a-side football format established in 2022 by former football player Gerard Piqué. The format, originally introduced in Spain, features rules that differ from traditional football regulations, such as a tie-breaker penalty shootout, unlimited substitutions, and the implementation of secret weapons, to add an element of dynamism and entertainment to the games.
As of 2025, Kings League has expanded with leagues in Western and Central Europe (Kings League Italy, Kings League France & Kings League Germany), North and South America (Kings League Mexico & Kings League Brazil), the Middle East and North Africa region (Kings League MENA) and with plans to expand into the United States (Kings League USA).

Title: Arijon Ibrahimović
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arijon_Ibrahimovi%C4%87
Summary: Arijon Ibrahimović (Albanian: Arion Ibrahimi; born 11 December 2005) is a German Kosovar professional footballer who plays as a midfielder and winger for Bundesliga club FC Augsburg, on loan from Bayern Munich. He is a German youth international.

Title: Maximilian Ibrahimović
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maximilian_Ibrahimovi%C4%87
Summary: Maximilian Zlatan Seger Ibrahimović (born 22 September 2006) is a Swedish professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder and winger for Eerste Divisie club Jong AZ.