Title: Home Run Derby
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Home_Run_Derby
Summary: The Home Run Derby, officially known as the T-Mobile Home Run Derby, is an annual home run hitting competition in Major League Baseball (MLB) customarily held the day before the MLB All-Star Game, which places the contest on a Monday in July. In the context of the competition a "home run" consists of hitting a baseball in fair territory out of the playing field on the fly. It differs from a home run hit during legal gameplay in that the batter is not competing against a pitcher and a defensive team attempting to make an out. In the Home Run Derby, all pitches are purposefully thrown slowly and at a closer range than the official 60 feet 6 inches (18.44 m) distance, usually by a coach behind a pitching screen. In addition, like batting practice, the batter remains in the batter's box after each swing and does not run, nor circle the bases to score a run. In 2023, Julio Rodríguez set the single-round home run record with 41 homers, topping Vladimir Guerrero Jr.'s 40 home runs in 2019.
The batter also does not have to conform to the usual league uniform standards, and as all pitches are tossed in the strike zone without any threat of beanballs, may choose to wear a regular baseball cap instead of a batting helmet. As the event traditionally takes place at sunset where the sun is of no factor to the batter, they can choose to wear their hat casually and backwards.
Since the inaugural derby in 1985, the event has seen several rule changes, evolving from a short-outs-based competition to multiple rounds, and eventually a bracket-style timed event.
T-Mobile has been the title sponsor of the Home Run Derby since 2016.

Title: List of Major League Baseball annual home run leaders
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Major_League_Baseball_annual_home_run_leaders
Summary: In baseball, a home run is scored when the ball is hit so far that the batter is able to circle all the bases ending at home plate, scoring himself plus any runners already on base, with no errors by the defensive team on the play. An automatic home run is achieved by hitting the ball on the fly over the outfield fence in fair territory.  More rarely, an inside-the-park home run occurs when the hitter reaches home plate while the baseball remains in play on the field. In Major League Baseball (MLB), a player in each league[L] wins the home run title each season by hitting the most home runs that year. Only home runs hit in a particular league count towards that league's seasonal lead. Mark McGwire, for example, hit 58 home runs in 1997, more than any other player that year. However, McGwire was traded from the American League's (AL) Oakland Athletics to the National League's (NL) St. Louis Cardinals midway through the season and his individual AL and NL home run totals (34 and 24, respectively) did not qualify to lead either league.
The first home run champion in the National League was George Hall. In the league's inaugural 1876 season, Hall hit five home runs for the short-lived National League Philadelphia Athletics. In 1901, the American League was established and Hall of Fame second baseman Nap Lajoie led it with 14 home runs for the American League Philadelphia Athletics. Over the course of his 22-season career, Babe Ruth led the American League in home runs twelve times. Mike Schmidt and Ralph Kiner have the second and third most home run titles respectively, Schmidt with eight and Kiner with seven, all won in the National League. Kiner's seven consecutive titles from 1946 to 1952 are also the most consecutive home run titles by any player.
Ruth set the Major League Baseball single-season home run record four times, first at 29 (1919), then 54 (1920), 59 (1921), and finally 60 (1927), all in the American League. Ruth's 1920 and 1921 seasons are tied for the widest margin of victory for a home run champion as he topped the next highest total by 35 home runs in each season. The single season mark of 60 stood for 34 years until Roger Maris hit 61 home runs in 1961 in the American League for which MLB assigned an asterisk until reversing themselves in 1991, citing Maris had accomplished his record in a longer season. Maris' league-wide record remained unbroken for 37 years until two National League players, Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa, both hit more than 62 home runs during the 1998 home run record chase, with McGwire ultimately setting the new record of 70, This record passed both Maris' American League record and the previous National League record, set 68 years earlier by Hack Wilson with 56 in 1930. Barry Bonds, who also has the most career home runs, then broke McGwire's record three years later, setting the existing single season record of 73 in 2001, again in the National League. The American League record was set in 2022 after being held by Roger Maris for 61 years, when Aaron Judge hit 62 homeruns.
The 1998 and 2001 seasons each had four players hit 50 or more home runs – Greg Vaughn, Ken Griffey Jr., Sosa, and McGwire in 1998 and Alex Rodriguez, Luis Gonzalez, Sosa, and Bonds in 2001. A player has hit 50 or more home runs 42 times, 25 times since 1990. Only seven players have hit 60 or more in one season, with Aaron Judge (2022) and Cal Raleigh (2025) the most recent. The lowest home run total to lead a major league was four, recorded in the NL by Lip Pike in 1877 and Paul Hines in 1878.

Title: Aaron Judge
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron_Judge
Summary: Aaron James Judge (born April 26, 1992) is an American professional baseball right fielder for the New York Yankees of Major League Baseball (MLB). He is an eight-time MLB All-Star and three-time American League (AL) Most Valuable Player Award (MVP) winner. He holds the AL record for most home runs in a season with 62. He stands 6 feet 7 inches (2.01 m) tall and weighs 282 pounds (128 kg), making him one of the tallest and largest players in MLB. He is considered to be among the best power hitters of all time.
Judge played college baseball for the Fresno State Bulldogs, and was selected by the Yankees with the 32nd pick in the first round of the 2013 MLB draft. After making his MLB debut in 2016, Judge won AL Rookie of the Year in 2017 by unanimous vote and finished second in AL MVP voting. He hit an AL-leading 52 home runs, temporarily setting a new MLB rookie record, and became the first rookie to win the Home Run Derby. In 2022, Judge won his first MVP after setting the AL single-season home run record, breaking the 61-year-old mark held by Roger Maris.
Following the 2022 season, Judge re-signed with the Yankees on a nine-year, $360-million contract and was named the team's captain. In 2024, he won his second MVP by unanimous vote, leading MLB in home runs and OPS while becoming the fastest MLB player to reach 300 career home runs. That postseason, the Yankees won their first AL pennant in 15 years, but lost in the World Series. He won his third MVP and second consecutive in 2025, and also captured his first batting title. Judge captained the United States national team during the 2026 World Baseball Classic.

Title: 2024 Major League Baseball postseason
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Major_League_Baseball_postseason
Summary: The 2024 Major League Baseball postseason was the playoff tournament of Major League Baseball (MLB) for the 2024 season. In each of the two leagues—National and American—the three division winners and three wild card teams (the remaining teams with the best records) participated in the postseason, for a total of twelve teams. First was the best-of-three Wild Card Series, with the two division winners with the best records getting a first-round bye. Next was the best-of-five Division Series. The victors advanced to the best-of-seven League Championship Series to determine the pennant winners, the champions of each league. These two teams played each other in the best-of-seven World Series. The postseason began on October 1 and ended on October 30.
In the American League, the New York Yankees returned to the postseason for the seventh time in the past eight seasons after missing the postseason last year. Joining them were the Cleveland Guardians, who returned to the postseason for the seventh time in the past twelve seasons. Next up were the Houston Astros, who returned to the postseason for the eighth time in a row and the ninth in the past ten seasons. Also returning were the Baltimore Orioles, who made their second straight appearance. The Detroit Tigers ended a decade of futility by returning to the postseason for the first time since 2014, ending the longest current playoff drought in Major League Baseball, which was tied with the Los Angeles Angels. The last team to make the postseason on the American League side were the Kansas City Royals, who clinched their first playoff berth since their 2015 championship season. The defending World Series champions, the Texas Rangers, were eliminated from postseason contention on September 20.
In the National League, the Milwaukee Brewers clinched their sixth appearance in the past seven seasons. Joining them were the Los Angeles Dodgers, who returned to the postseason for the twelfth straight time. Next up were the Philadelphia Phillies, who returned to the postseason for the third year in a row. Up next were the San Diego Padres, who returned to the postseason for the third time in the past five seasons. The last two teams on the NL side were the New York Mets, who returned to the postseason for the fourth time in the past ten seasons via a September 30th doubleheader against the Atlanta Braves, and the aforementioned Braves, who clinched their seventh straight appearance via the second game doubleheader against the Mets.
With the Mets and Braves clinching, the Arizona Diamondbacks, the defending National League champions, were eliminated from postseason contention. This marked the first time since 2007 where neither team from the previous year's World Series appeared in the postseason. In the Division Series, every series was tied 1–1 in the first two games for the first time in the history of the MLB postseason. The Dodgers defeated the Yankees in five games in the 2024 World Series. It was the Dodgers’ eighth championship in franchise history, tying the San Francisco Giants for the fifth-most World Series championships.

Title: 2024 Major League Baseball Home Run Derby
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Major_League_Baseball_Home_Run_Derby
Summary: The 2024 Major League Baseball Home Run Derby was a home run hitting contest between eight batters from Major League Baseball (MLB). The derby was held on July 15, 2024, at Globe Life Field in Arlington, the site of the 2024 MLB All-Star Game. The event was won by Teoscar Hernández of the Los Angeles Dodgers.