Title: France national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/France_national_football_team
Summary: The France national football team represents France in men's international football. It is overseen by the French Football Federation (FFF; Fédération française de football), the governing body for football in France. It is a member of UEFA in Europe and FIFA in global competitions. The team's colours and imagery reference two national symbols: the Flag of France and Gallic rooster (coq gaulois). The team is colloquially known as Les Bleus (The Blues). They play home matches at the Stade de France in Saint-Denis and train at Centre National du Football in Clairefontaine-en-Yvelines.
Founded in 1904, the national team has won two FIFA World Cups, two UEFA European Championships, one CONMEBOL–UEFA Cup of Champions, two FIFA Confederations Cups and one UEFA Nations League title. France was one of the four European teams that participated in the first World Cup in 1930. Twenty-eight years later, the team led by Raymond Kopa and Just Fontaine finished in third place at the 1958 World Cup. France experienced much of its success in three different eras: in the 1980s, the late 1990s to early 2000s, and the late 2010s to early 2020s.
In the early to mid-1980s, under the leadership of the three-time Ballon d'Or winner Michel Platini, France won Euro 1984 (its first official title), a CONMEBOL–UEFA Cup (1985), and reached two consecutive World Cup semi-finals (1982 and 1986). During the captaincy of Didier Deschamps, with Zinedine Zidane being the star player, Les Bleus won the 1998 World Cup and Euro 2000. They also won the Confederations Cup in 2001 and 2003. Three years later, France made it to the final of the 2006 World Cup, losing 5–3 on penalties to Italy. A decade later, the team reached the final of Euro 2016, where they lost 1–0 to Portugal in extra time. Two years after that, France won the 2018 World Cup, its second title in that competition. After winning the 2021 Nations League, they became the first, and so far, the only European national team to have won every senior FIFA and UEFA competition. In 2022, France reached a second consecutive World Cup final, losing to Argentina in a penalty shoot-out.
France is one of two countries, the other being Brazil, to have won every FIFA men's 11-player competition at every age level, having claimed the FIFA World Cup, FIFA U-20 World Cup, FIFA U-17 World Cup, the now-defunct FIFA Confederations Cup, and an Olympic title.
France shares historic footballing rivalries with other European nations, most notably Belgium, Italy, Germany and Spain. A bitter rivalry with Argentina also developed and intensified in the late 2010s and early 2020s, defined by two consecutive World Cup knockout stage matches (round of 16 in 2018 and final in 2022).

Title: Greece national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greece_national_football_team
Summary: The Greece national football team (Greek: εθνική ομάδα ποδοσφαίρου Ελλάδας, romanized: ethnikí omáda podosfaírou Elládas) represents Greece in men's international football matches, and is controlled by the Hellenic Football Federation, the governing body for football in Greece. Greece is one of only ten national teams to have been crowned UEFA European Champions.
Greece's first appearance in a major tournament was at UEFA Euro 1980 where they were knocked out in the group stage. Their qualification to the then eight-team UEFA European Championship gave them a position in the top eight European football nations that year. Greece did not qualify for another major tournament until the 1994 FIFA World Cup and after an undefeated qualifying campaign, they produced a poor performance in the final, losing all three group matches without scoring.
UEFA Euro 2004 marked the highest point in Greece's football history when they won the tournament in only their second participation. Dismissed as rank outsiders before the tournament, Greece defeated some of the favourites in the competition including defending European champions France, and hosts Portugal twice (the opening game of the tournament and again in the final). Their triumph earned them a place in the 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup.
In the decade after the 2004 victory, Greece qualified for the finals tournament of all but one major competition entered, reaching the quarter-finals at the UEFA Euro 2012 and the round of 16 at the 2014 FIFA World Cup. During that period, they occupied a place in the top 20 of the FIFA World Ranking for all but four months, and reached an all-time high of eighth in the world from April to June 2008, as well as in October 2011.
Since 2014, Greece has not made an appearance in any major tournament.

Title: List of current national association football team managers
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_current_national_association_football_team_managers
Summary: This is a list of the current managers of national teams in men's association football. Appointed by the country's association, a manager is responsible for selecting the team of players for the matches of the national team, among other duties.
The list encompasses all teams that are members, full or associate, of one of FIFA's six continental confederations: AFC (Asia), CAF (Africa), CONCACAF (North and Central America and the Caribbean), CONMEBOL (South America), OFC (Oceania), and UEFA (Europe). The great majority of those nations are also members of FIFA itself; where this is not the case, this is noted.
Unlike players, who must meet eligibility rules including holding legal nationality of the country they represent, and have very limited options for changing national team allegiance, managers are bound by no such restrictions; it is not uncommon for associations to hire foreign managers, and for managers to have been in charge of different national teams during their careers.
Managers of FIFA member national teams, along with captains of those teams and media representatives, are able to vote for nominees of The Best FIFA Men's Player award.

Title: Russia national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russia_national_football_team
Summary: The Russia national football team (Russian: Сборная России по футболу, romanized: Sbornaya Rossii po futbolu) represents Russia in men's international football. It is controlled by the Russian Football Union (Russian: Российский футбольный союз, Rossiyskiy Futbolnyy Soyuz), the governing body for football in Russia. Russia's home ground is the Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow and their head coach is Valery Karpin.
As the Russian Empire before 1917, as the Russian SFSR in 1917–1924 and as the Soviet Union in 1924–1991, Russia first entered the FIFA World Cup in 1958. They have qualified for the tournament 11 times (seven of which as the Soviet Union), with their best result being their fourth-place finish in 1966. As the Soviet Union, Russia was a founding member of UEFA in 1954, winning the first edition of the European Championship in 1960 and were runners-up in 1964, 1972 and 1988. Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Russia's best result was in 2008, when the team finished third. In addition to Ukraine and Uzbekistan, Russia is the only post-Soviet state to qualify for the FIFA World Cup finals.
On 28 February 2022, following the Russian invasion of Ukraine and in accordance with a "recommendation" by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), FIFA and UEFA suspended the participation of Russia in their competitions. The Russian Football Union unsuccessfully appealed the FIFA and UEFA bans to the Court of Arbitration for Sport, which upheld the bans. Since then, they have played several friendlies, mostly against non-Western countries.

Title: History of the Portugal national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_Portugal_national_football_team
Summary: The history of the Portugal national football team dates back to its first match on 18 December 1921. The national team, also referred to as Seleção das Quinas (Team of the Quincunxes), represents the nation of Portugal in international football. It is fielded by the Portuguese Football Federation and competes as one of the founding members of UEFA.
The Portugal national football team played its first international match in 1921 and has taken part in the FIFA World Cup, where their best finish was third in 1966. After reaching the final of the UEFA Euro 2004 on home soil with their golden generation, and reaching the semi-finals of the 2006 FIFA World Cup, Portugal's first major trophy came in 2016 with that year's European Championship. Over the following years, Portugal won the UEFA Nations League on two occasions, in 2019, making it the second major tournament earned by the Portuguese in three finals and a recording second time in 2025.