Title: Yakutsk
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakutsk
Summary: Yakutsk is the capital and largest city of Sakha, Russia, located about 450 km (280 mi) south of the Arctic Circle. Fueled by the mining industry, Yakutsk has become one of Russia's most rapidly growing regional cities, with a population of 355,443 at the 2021 census.
Yakutsk has an average annual temperature of −8.0 °C (17.6 °F), winter high temperatures consistently well below −20 °C (−4 °F), and a record low of −64.4 °C (−83.9 °F) has been recorded. 
As a result, Yakutsk is the coldest major city in the world (although a number of smaller towns in that region are slightly colder). Yakutsk is also the largest city located in continuous permafrost; the only other large city is Norilsk, also in Siberia. Yakutsk is in the Central Yakutian Lowland and is a major port on the Lena River. It is served by the Yakutsk Airport as well as the smaller Magan Airport.

Title: Sakha Republic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sakha_Republic
Summary: Sakha, officially the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), is a republic of Russia, and the largest federal subject of Russia by area. It is located in the Russian Far East, along the Arctic Ocean, with a population of one million. Sakha comprises half of the area of its governing Far Eastern Federal District, and is the world's largest country subdivision, covering over 3,083,523 square kilometers (1,190,555 sq mi). Yakutsk, which is the world's coldest major city, is its capital and largest city.
The republic has a reputation for an extreme and severe climate, with the second lowest temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere being recorded in Verkhoyansk and Oymyakon (second only to Summit Camp, Greenland), and regular winter averages commonly dipping below −35 °C (−31 °F) in Yakutsk. The hypercontinental tendencies also result in warm summers for much of the republic.
Sakha was first home to hunting-gathering and reindeer-herding Tungusic and Paleosiberian peoples such as the Evenks and Yukaghir. Migrating from the area around Lake Baikal, the Turkic Sakha people first migrated to the middle Lena River sometime between the 9th and 16th centuries, likely in several waves, bringing the pastoral economic system of Inner Asia with them.
The Russians colonised and incorporated the area as the Yakutsk Oblast into the Tsardom of Russia in the early-mid 17th century, obliging the indigenous peoples of the area to pay fur tribute. While the initial period following the Russian conquest saw the Sakha population drop by 70%, the Imperial period also saw the expansion of the native Yakuts from the middle Lena along the Vilyuy River to the north and the east displacing other indigenous groups. Yakutia saw some of the last battles of the Russian Civil War, and the Bolshevik authorities reorganised Yakutsk Oblast into the autonomous Yakut ASSR in 1922. The Soviet era saw the migration of many Slavs, specifically Russians and Ukrainians, into the area.
On 27 September 1990, the area became the Yakutskaya-Sakha Soviet Socialist Republic, and on 27 December 1991, it became the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia).

Title: Head of the Sakha Republic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head_of_the_Sakha_Republic
Summary: The Head of the Sakha Republic (Russian: Глава Республики Саха (Якутия), romanized: Glava Respubliki Sakha (Yakutia); Yakut: Саха Өрөспүүбүлүкэтин Ил Дархана; Ил Дархан, romanized: Saxa Öröspüübülüketin İl Darxana; İl Darxan) is the highest office in the Sakha Republic. The term of office is five years.

Title: Yakutia constituency
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakutia_constituency
Summary: The Yakutia constituency (No.24) is a Russian legislative constituency in the Sakha Republic (Yakutia). The constituency encompasses the entire territory of Yakutia. Yakutia constituency is the largest single-mandate territorial constituency in the world (roughly the size of India).
The constituency has been represented since 2021 by Communist deputy Petr Ammosov, a party activist, who narrowly defeated three-term A Just Russia – For Truth incumbent Fedot Tumusov (Tumusov was simultaneously elected by party list representation).

Title: 2023 Sakha head election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023_Sakha_head_election
Summary: The 2023 Sakha head election took place on 8–10 September 2023, on common election day, coinciding with the State Assembly of the Sakha Republic election. Incumbent Head Aysen Nikolayev was elected to a second term in office.