Title: Jie Tang
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jie_Tang
Summary: Jie Tang (born 1977) is a full-time professor at the Department of Computer Science of Tsinghua University. He received a PhD in computer science from the same university in 2006. He is known for building the academic social network search system AMiner (formerly known as ArnetMiner), which was launched in March 2006 and now has attracted 2,766,356 independent IP accesses from 220 countries.
His research interests include social networks and data mining.
He was elevated to IEEE Fellow in 2021 "for contributions to knowledge discovery from data and social network mining".
He was elevated to ACM Fellow in 2022 "for contributions to information and social network mining". He was elected AAAI Fellow in 2023.
He is also a co-founder of Z.ai. As of March 2026, Forbes has estimated his net worth to be $1.9 billion.

Title: List of large language models
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_large_language_models
Summary: A large language model (LLM) is a type of machine learning model designed for natural language processing tasks such as language generation. LLMs are language models with many parameters, and are trained with self-supervised learning on a vast amount of text.

Title: Z.ai
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z.ai
Summary: Z.AI Co., Ltd., branded internationally as Z.ai, is a Chinese artificial intelligence company; their flagship product is the GLM (General Language Model) family of open weights large language models (LLMs). Formerly known as Zhipu AI outside China until 2025, it is China's first major LLM company to make initial public offering, on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in January 2026. With a market capitalization of US$62 billion as of August 2026, it is the most valuable public AI pure play in China.
Founded in Beijing in 2019 by Jie Tang as a Tsinghua University spin-out, researchers introduced the first GLM version in May 2022, preceding the AI boom. Z.ai's models have released under the free and open-source MIT License since July 2025; they have also released vision language models, text-to-video models, and the ZCode AI coding harness.
As of 2024, it is one of China's six "AI tiger" companies by investors and considered to be the third-largest LLM market player in China according to the International Data Corporation. In January 2025, the United States Commerce Department blacklisted the company in its Entity List due to national security concerns. Z.ai owns AMiner, a research database similar to Google Scholar.

Title: Moonshot AI
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moonshot_AI
Summary: Moonshot AI (Moonshot; Chinese: 月之暗面; pinyin: Yuè Zhī Ànmiàn; lit. 'Dark Side of the Moon') is an artificial intelligence (AI) company based in Beijing, China. It is one of China's six "AI Tigers". Its Kimi K3, released July 2026, is the largest open weights model ever, at 2.8 trillion parameters. Founded in Beijing by Yang Zhilin, Zhou Xinyu, and Wu Yuxin in March 2023 at the outset of the AI boom, the company achieved a valuation of US$35 billion by July 2026, the second most valuable privately held AI company in China, after DeepSeek. Major investors include Alibaba Group and Tencent.
Moonshot releases the Kimi series of open weights large language models, available via web, API, and the Kimi Code command-line agent. These are capable of multimodal image and video input, and their "Swarm" feature utilizes hundreds of sub-agents for deep research. Kimi K3's performance led the AI industry in China and rivalled frontier models from US companies OpenAI and Anthropic. Despite its open weights, K3's custom license requires revenue sharing of up to 30% for inference providers generating over US$20 million annually.  
Kimi models have been used as the basis or for post-training of US models, including Thinking Machines Lab's Inkling, Cursor's Composer 2, and Cognition AI's Devin AI. Throughout 2026, Anthropic accused Moonshot and other Chinese competitors of distilling its Claude models and covertly routing requests to Claude. From April, a US congressional committee subpoenaed DoorDash, Airbnb, and Cursor over their use of Kimi.

Title: Yang Zhilin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yang_Zhilin
Summary: Yang Zhilin (Chinese: 杨植麟; pinyin: Yáng Zhílín; born 1992) is a Chinese entrepreneur and businessman who is the co-founder of the AI company Moonshot AI. He also co-founded Recurrent AI.
Yang is also the co-author of the papers relating to XLNet and Transformer-XL.