Title: University of Virginia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Virginia
Summary: The University of Virginia (UVA or Virginia) is a public research university located in Charlottesville City and Albemarle County in Virginia, United States. It was founded in 1819 by Thomas Jefferson and contains his Academical Village, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Its original governing Board of Visitors included three U.S. presidents: Jefferson, James Madison, and James Monroe, the latter as sitting president of the United States at the time of its foundation. As its first two rectors, presidents Jefferson and Madison played key roles in the university's foundation, with Jefferson designing both the original courses of study and the university's original architecture. The original campus contains President Monroe's former residence and law office, today used as a residential college.
Now expanded to 1,135 acres (459 ha) of central campus, the modern university is composed of eight undergraduate and three professional schools: the School of Law, the Darden School of Business, and the School of Medicine. The university has been a member of the Association of American Universities since 1904.
The university's leadership, faculty, research staff, and alumni have included several United States presidents, foreign heads of state, Nobel laureates, Pulitzer Prize winners, a Dan David Prize winner, Marshall Scholars, Fulbright Scholars, and 57 Rhodes Scholars—the most of any state university. Its alumni include 31 state governors (including fourteen governors of Virginia) and 33 United States senators. UVA students and alumni have founded companies such as Reddit, Skillshare, VMware, and Space Adventures.
Its athletic teams, the Virginia Cavaliers, have twice won the Capital One Cup for overall athletics prowess and compete in NCAA Division I as members of the Atlantic Coast Conference.

Title: Michael Schwerner
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Schwerner
Summary: Michael Henry "Mickey" Schwerner (November 6, 1939 – June 21, 1964) was an American civil-rights activist. He was one of three civil rights workers murdered in rural Neshoba County, Mississippi, by members of the Ku Klux Klan. Schwerner and two co-workers, James Chaney and Andrew Goodman, were killed in response to their civil rights work, which included promoting voting registration among African Americans, most of whom had been disenfranchised in the state since 1890.

Title: List of Virginia Tech commencement speakers
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Virginia_Tech_commencement_speakers
Summary: Each year, Virginia Tech holds commencement ceremonies at the end of the academic year in May, as well as at the end of the Fall semester in December.  Since 1990, a separate Graduate School Commencement Ceremony has been held to confer degrees to master's and doctoral students.  Fall commencement is held in Cassell Coliseum, and Spring Commencement is held in Lane Stadium.

Title: Justin Fairfax
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justin_Fairfax
Summary: Justin Edward Fairfax (February 17, 1979 – April 16, 2026) was an American lawyer and politician who served as the 41st lieutenant governor of Virginia from 2018 to 2022. A member of the Democratic Party, he was the second African American to be elected to statewide office in Virginia, after Douglas Wilder. In 2019, he faced sexual assault allegations dating to 2000 and 2004, resulting in his departure from his law firm and calls for his resignation as lieutenant governor. He served out the remainder of his term. 
Fairfax was a Democratic candidate for governor of Virginia in the 2021 election. He finished fourth in the Democratic primary with 3.54% of the vote. On the morning of April 16, 2026, Fairfax fatally shot his wife, Cerina Fairfax, before killing himself in a murder–suicide.

Title: Sabrina Wu
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sabrina_Wu
Summary: Sabrina Wu (born 1997/1998) is an American writer, comedian, and actor. Wu's stand-up comedy has been recognized by Just for Laughs, Vulture, and Variety. They gained wider prominence as a lead actor in the Adele Lim film Joy Ride.