Title: Lincolnshire, Illinois
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lincolnshire,_Illinois
Summary: Lincolnshire is a village in Lake County, Illinois, United States. It is a northern suburb of Chicago. Per the 2020 census, the population was 7,940. Named after Lincolnshire, England, the village was incorporated on August 5, 1957, from the unincorporated Half Day area when land was purchased to build a residential subdivision. The community underwent an aggressive era of expansion from 1983 through the 1990s. The Des Plaines River bisects the village, passing from north to south; Illinois Route 22 also divides the village into two parts, crossing the village from east to west.
Camping World, Quill Corporation, Sysmex America and Zebra Technologies are headquartered in Lincolnshire. The village is home to the public Adlai E. Stevenson High School as part of Lincolnshire-Prairie View School District 103. It is also home to Lincolnshire Commons, an upscale lifestyle center. The village maintains a police department and public works system; it retrieves water from the city of Highland Park, which derives its water from adjacent Lake Michigan. The village has a council–manager government and is a home-rule municipality. The mayor of Lincolnshire is Elizabeth Brandt as of 2024.

Title: London Monarchs
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Monarchs
Summary: The London Monarchs were a professional American football team in NFL Europe and its predecessor league, the World League of American Football (WLAF). The Monarchs played their final season in 1998 as the England Monarchs. In 1999, they were replaced by the new Berlin Thunder.

Title: NFL International Series
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NFL_International_Series
Summary: The NFL International Series is a series of American football games during the National Football League (NFL) regular season that are played outside the United States. The series has held games in the United Kingdom (in place since 2007), Australia, Brazil, Germany, Ireland, and Spain, as well as an upcoming game in France. Between 2016 and 2022, the series also intermittently included games played in Mexico, though the league will return in 2026.
Wembley Stadium in London was the exclusive home stadium for International Series games from 2007 to 2015 and continued to host NFL games through 2019 and again since 2022. The series expanded to more stadiums, first to Twickenham Stadium in London and Estadio Azteca in Mexico City in 2016, and eventually to Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in London in 2019. Other sites that have hosted games include three locations in Germany: Allianz Arena in Munich (2022 and 2024), Deutsche Bank Park in Frankfurt (2023), and Olympiastadion in Berlin (2025); Arena Corinthians in São Paulo, Brazil (2024 and 2025), the Bernabéu in Madrid, Spain (2025), and Croke Park in Dublin, Ireland (2025). Maracanã Stadium in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, is set to host three games over the next five years, beginning in 2026. Melbourne Cricket Ground in Melbourne, Australia, and Stade de France in Paris, France, will also host games in 2026.

Title: BAFA National Leagues
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BAFA_National_Leagues
Summary: The BAFA National Leagues (BAFANL) is the primary American football domestic league competition in Great Britain. Originally formed in 1983, the league is run by the British American Football Association to coordinate contact football within England, Scotland and Wales. The top level is the Premier Division and the BritBowl is the annual final championship game. The league was reformed in 2010 following the collapse of the British American Football League, which had run in a number of different guises since the early 1980s. Previous names of the league were the UKAFL (UK American Football League), the Budweiser League and the BNGL (British National Gridiron League). From 1998 until 2005 the league was known as the BSL (British Senior League). Tensions grew throughout 2009 between the directors of BAFL and those of the governing body the British American Football Association, and at the beginning of 2010 the BAFL formally, but unconstitutionally, withdrew from BAFA. This led to uproar from the teams within BAFL, ultimately signalling the end for BAFL as an entity. The league ceased operations on 1 April 2010 and was replaced by the BAFA Community Leagues for the 2010 season, rebranding in 2011 to become the BAFANL. Notable players to have come from the BAFANL who have gone on to play in the NFL are Efe Obada, Aden Durde, Jermaine Allen and Marvin Allen.
The league operates a summer season and begins in April and plays through until August, with play-off games running into September. There are currently 60 teams who compete in 12 regional divisions across three levels of football. The 12 teams who contest both the two BAFA Premier Divisions compete to reach the annual Britbowl final, whereas teams in the second and third level aim to earn promotion to the Division above, attempting to reach one of the Divisional bowl finals. The current champions are the Bristol Aztecs who won the 2026 Britbowl as well as the Premier Division South, after defeating the Manchester Titans 49-10 in the 2026 Britbowl final.

Title: Potential London NFL franchise
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Potential_London_NFL_franchise
Summary: A potential London NFL franchise is a hypothetical National Football League (NFL) American football team based in London, formed as a new expansion team or by relocating one of the existing 32 NFL teams currently based in the United States. Should the league establish a team in London, it would become the first of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada to establish a franchise outside either of those two countries.
A London NFL franchise would be intended to grow the league's revenues and provide further access to the British and European markets. However, the agreement of league owners is needed to undertake an expansion or relocation, and a London franchise would face financial, legal and logistical challenges. Possible home stadiums for the London team include one or more of Wembley Stadium, Twickenham Stadium or Tottenham Hotspur Stadium.
Since 2007, the league has held multiple regular season games in London each season as part of the NFL International Series, allowing the league to test solutions to some of the challenges facing a hypothetical London franchise.