Title: Initial public offering
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Initial_public_offering
Summary: An initial public offering (IPO) or stock launch is a public offering in which shares of a company are sold to institutional investors and usually also to retail investors. An IPO is typically underwritten by one or more investment banks, who also arrange for the shares to be listed on one or more stock exchanges. Through this process, colloquially known as floating or going public, a privately held company is transformed into a public company. IPOs can be used to raise new equity capital for companies, to monetize the investments of private shareholders such as company founders or private equity investors, and to enable easy trading of existing holdings or future capital raising by becoming publicly traded.
When a company becomes publicly listed, the money paid by the investing public for the newly issued shares goes directly to the company (primary offering) as well as to any early private investors who opt to sell all or a portion of their holdings (secondary offerings) as part of the larger IPO. An IPO, therefore, allows a company to tap into a wide pool of potential investors to provide itself with capital for future growth, repayment of debt, or working capital. 
After the IPO, shares are traded freely in the open market at what is known as the free float. The market value of a company after an IPO is determined by the share price multiplied by the total number of outstanding shares, commonly referred to as market capitalization. Stock exchanges stipulate a minimum free float both in absolute terms (the total value as determined by the share price multiplied by the number of shares sold to the public) and as a proportion of the total share capital (i.e., the number of shares sold to the public divided by the total shares outstanding). Although IPO offers many benefits, there are also significant costs involved, chiefly those associated with the process such as banking and legal fees, and the ongoing requirement to disclose important and sometimes sensitive information.
Details of the proposed offering are disclosed to potential purchasers in the form of a lengthy document known as a prospectus. Most companies undertake an IPO with the assistance of an investment banking firm acting in the capacity of an underwriter. Underwriters provide several services, including help with correctly assessing the value of shares (share price) and establishing a public market for shares (initial sale). Alternative methods such as the Dutch auction have also been explored and applied for several IPOs.

Title: Kenvue
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenvue
Summary: Kenvue Inc. is an American consumer health company. Formerly the Consumer Healthcare division of Johnson & Johnson, Kenvue owns well-known brands such as Aveeno, Band-Aid, Benadryl, Zyrtec, Johnson's, Listerine, Lactaid, Mylanta, Neutrogena, Trosyd, Calpol, Tylenol, and Visine. Kenvue is incorporated in Delaware and was originally headquartered in the Skillman section of Montgomery Township, New Jersey, before relocating to Summit, New Jersey.
Johnson & Johnson announced in November 2021 that it would spin off its consumer health division as a separate company. The new company was named Kenvue in September 2022, and its initial public offering took place in May 2023, raising $3.8 billion in the largest U.S. IPO since 2021, with an initial valuation of about $41 billion. Johnson & Johnson initially retained more than 90% ownership before completing a full separation through a share exchange in July 2023. Kenvue was subsequently added to the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats index.
CEO Thibaut Mongon initially led Kenvue, which employed about 22,200 people in 2022. Following Mongon’s termination in 2025, Kirk Perry was named interim CEO. Perry was appointed the company's permanent CEO in November 2025.
The company has also faced controversy, including a securities class action filed in 2023 alleging misleading disclosures regarding risks related to phenylephrine, which led to its stock trading below IPO levels.
On November 3, 2025, Kimberly-Clark announced that it was acquiring Kenvue for a total enterprise value of US$48.7 billion. The acquisition is expected to close around the second half of 2026.

Title: Wealth of Elon Musk
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wealth_of_Elon_Musk
Summary: Elon Musk is the wealthiest person in the world in terms of financial assets, with an estimated net worth of US$904 billion according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index and $908 billion according to Forbes, as of September 6, 2026, primarily from his ownership stakes of 42% of SpaceX and 20% of Tesla. He will receive additional SpaceX stock and $1 trillion worth of Tesla stock if the companies meet certain milestones. 
Musk was first listed on the Forbes list of The World's Billionaires in 2012, with a net worth of $2 billion. According to Forbes, his net worth reached $300 billion in 2021; $400bn in December 2024; $500bn in October 2025; $600bn and $700bn in December 2025; $800bn in February 2026; and $900bn in June 2026, and he became the only US dollar trillionaire in history that month upon the initial public offering (IPO) of SpaceX. Since then, his net worth has been volatile, largely because of changes in SpaceX’s valuation. His net worth reached an intraday peak of $1.45 trillion in the week after the IPO, but by late July 2026, a SpaceX stock collapse had reduced this net worth by $750 billion, the largest net worth loss in history.
In May 2020, Musk pledged to sell almost all physical possessions and said he would "own no house", but in February 2026, The New York Times identified at least 37 companies that own properties which appear to be for Musk's personal use, including expensive condominiums, planes used by him for private travel and at least 1000 acres of land. His wealth is managed by Excession LLC, his family office, which has been run by Jared Birchall since 2016.

Title: CoreWeave
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CoreWeave
Summary: CoreWeave, Inc. is an American artificial intelligence (AI) cloud-computing company based in Livingston, New Jersey. It specializes in providing cloud-based graphics processing unit (GPU) infrastructure to AI developers and enterprises, and also develops its own chip management software.
Founded as Atlantic Crypto in 2017 and focused on high-performance computing, CoreWeave has its own data centers operating in the United States and Europe, with some dedicated to multiple companies and some to a single client. Its $1.6 billion supercomputer data center for Nvidia in Plano, Texas, has been described by Nvidia as the fastest AI supercomputer in the world.

Title: Initial public offering of SpaceX
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Initial_public_offering_of_SpaceX
Summary: The initial public offering (IPO) of SpaceX, an American aerospace and artificial intelligence company founded by Elon Musk in 2002, occurred on June 12, 2026. It was the largest ever IPO, at a valuation of US$1.77 trillion. On the first trading day, the company reached a market capitalization of about $2.1 trillion, positioning SpaceX as the sixth most valuable U.S.-listed firm.
This valuation and the quantity of stock retained by Musk made him the first and only US dollar trillionaire, but were highly controversial. By late July 2026, SpaceX shares had fallen approximately 50% from their peak reached during the week after the IPO, causing Musk to lose his trillionaire status.
The IPO raised $86 billion for the company's long-term ambitions, including building orbital artificial intelligence (AI) infrastructure to meet computing needs for xAI, a SpaceX subsidiary. The company chose to be listed on Nasdaq with the ticker symbol SPCX after securing a rule change allowing its early inclusion in the Nasdaq-100 index, but not the S&P 500 index.