Title: Avatar: The Last Airbender
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar:_The_Last_Airbender
Summary: Avatar: The Last Airbender (also known as Avatar: The Legend of Aang in some regions, Avatar, or ATLA) is an American animated fantasy action television series created by Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko. Produced by Nickelodeon Animation Studio, it originally aired on Nickelodeon for three seasons from February 2005 to July 2008.
The series is set in a largely Asian-inspired world in which some people can telekinetically manipulate one of the four elements—water, earth, fire or air—through practices known as "bending", inspired by Chinese martial arts. The only individual who can bend all four elements, the "Avatar", is responsible for maintaining harmony among the world's four nations, and serves as the link between the physical  and spirit worlds. The series follows the journey of twelve-year-old Aang, the current Avatar and last survivor of his nation, the Air Nomads, along with his friends Katara, Sokka, and Toph, as they strive to end the Fire Nation's war against the other nations and defeat Fire Lord Ozai before he conquers the world. The series also follows Zuko—the exiled prince of the Fire Nation, seeking to restore his lost honor by capturing Aang, accompanied by his uncle Iroh—and later, his sister Azula. Avatar: The Last Airbender is presented and animated in a style that combines Japanese anime influences with those of American cartoons and relies on the imagery of primarily Chinese culture, with various other influences from different East Asian, Southeast Asian, South Asian, North Asian, and indigenous American cultures.
Avatar: The Last Airbender was a ratings success and received widespread acclaim from critics and audiences, with high praise given to its characters, cultural references, art direction, voice acting, soundtrack, humor, ending, and thematic content. The series explores themes rarely touched on in youth entertainment, such as war, genocide, sexism, gender roles, imperialism, totalitarianism, class warfare, political corruption, indoctrination, animal cruelty, fate, and free choice. It won five Annie Awards, a Genesis Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, a Kids' Choice Award, and a Peabody Award. Since its release, the show has been regarded by critics as one of the most acclaimed series of the 21st century, and one of the greatest animated television series of all time.
The extended franchise includes an ongoing comics series, a prequel novel series, two animated sequel series, a live-action film, and a Netflix live-action adaptation series. The complete series was released on Blu-ray in June 2018 in honor of the tenth anniversary of its finale and was made available to stream on Netflix in the United States and Canada in May 2020, on Paramount+ in June 2020, and on Amazon Prime Video in January 2021. A direct animated sequel film was scheduled to release theatrically, but was instead released on Paramount+ in July 2026.

Title: Aang
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aang
Summary: Avatar Aang (Chinese: 安昂; pinyin: Ān Áng), or simply Aang, is a fictional character and the titular main protagonist of Nickelodeon's animated television series Avatar: The Last Airbender, created by Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko. He is voiced by Zach Tyler Eisen. Aang was the last surviving Airbender, a monk of the Air Nomads' Southern Air Temple, and the youngest ever airbending master (of his generation).
He is an incarnation of the "Avatar", the spirit of light and peace manifested in human form. As the Avatar, Aang controls all four elements (water, earth, fire, and air) and is tasked with bringing balance and keeping the Four Nations at peace. In Avatar: The Last Airbender, he is chronologically 112 years old (biologically 12), and he died chronologically at age 166 (biologically 66.) Aang is the series' reluctant hero, spending a century in suspended animation in an iceberg before being discovered and joining new friends Katara and Sokka on a quest to master the elements and save their world from the imperialist Fire Nation. As Aang progresses through his journey, he is joined by Toph, Zuko and Suki.
Aang's character has appeared in other media, such as trading cards, video games, T-shirts, and web comics. Avatar Aang was also portrayed by Noah Ringer in the live-action film The Last Airbender (2010) and voiced by D.B. Sweeney in the sequel series The Legend of Korra. Gordon Cormier portrays Avatar Aang in the Netflix live-action adaptation of the same name.

Title: Avatar (2009 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar_(2009_film)
Summary: Avatar is a 2009 epic science fiction film written and directed by James Cameron. It features an ensemble cast including Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldaña, Stephen Lang, Michelle Rodriguez, and Sigourney Weaver. It is the first installment in the Avatar film series. It is set in the mid-22nd century, when humans are colonizing Pandora, a lush habitable moon, in order to mine the valuable mineral unobtanium. The expansion of the mining colony threatens the existence of a local tribe of Na'vi, a humanoid species indigenous to Pandora. The title of the film refers to an "avatar", which is a genetically engineered Na'vi body remotely operated from the brain of a human, and which is used to interact with the Na'vi.
Development of Avatar began in 1994, when Cameron wrote an 80-page treatment for the film. Filming was due to take place after the completion of Cameron's 1997 film Titanic, for a planned release in 1999; however, according to Cameron, the necessary technology was not yet available to achieve his vision of the film. Work on the fictional constructed language of the Na'vi began in 2005, and Cameron began developing the screenplay and fictional universe in early 2006. Avatar was budgeted at $237 million, due to the groundbreaking array of new visual effects Cameron achieved in cooperation with Weta Digital. Some estimates put the cost at between $280 million and $310 million for production, and at $150 million for promotion. The film made extensive use of 3D computer graphics and new motion capture filming techniques, and reunited Cameron with his Titanic co-producer Jon Landau.
Avatar premiered at the Odeon Leicester Square theater in London on December 10, 2009, and was released in the United States on December 18 by 20th Century Fox. The film received positive reviews from critics, who praised its groundbreaking visual effects, though the plot received criticism for being derivative. The film broke several box office records, including becoming the highest-grossing film of all time, surpassing Cameron's previous film, Titanic. It also became the first film to gross more than $2 billion, and was the best-selling video title of 2010 in the United States. Adjusted for inflation, Avatar grossed around $4 billion, making it the second-highest-grossing film of all time, behind Gone with the Wind (1939).
Avatar received nine nominations at the 82nd Academy Awards, winning three awards, and received numerous other accolades. The success of the film led to an increase in popularity of 3D films, and to electronics manufacturers releasing 3D televisions. Avatar was followed by the sequels Avatar: The Way of Water (2022) and Avatar: Fire and Ash (2025), with two more sequels in development.

Title: Avatar: Fire and Ash
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar:_Fire_and_Ash
Summary: Avatar: Fire and Ash is a 2025 American epic science fiction film directed by James Cameron from a screenplay he co-wrote with Rick Jaffa and Amanda Silver. Produced by Lightstorm Entertainment, it is the third installment in the Avatar film series and the sequel to Avatar: The Way of Water (2022). The film features Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldaña, Sigourney Weaver, Stephen Lang, and Kate Winslet reprising their roles from previous films. The story follows the human-turned-Na'vi Jake Sully and his family on the habitable moon Pandora, as they face the combined threat of the human RDA forces and the Mangkwan, a ruthless Na'vi clan.
Following the box office success of Avatar (2009), Cameron announced two sequels, with Avatar 3 aiming for a December 2015 release. However, the addition of two further sequels and the development of new performance capture technology required to film scenes underwater led to significant delays to allow the crew more time to work on writing, pre-production, and visual effects. Avatar: Fire and Ash started shooting simultaneously with The Way of Water in New Zealand on September 25, 2017, and filming wrapped in late December 2020. With an estimated production budget of at least $350 million, it is one of the most expensive films ever made.
Avatar: Fire and Ash had its world premiere at Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, on December 1, 2025, and was released in the United States on December 19 by 20th Century Studios. It received mixed to positive reviews from critics, who praised its visual effects, action sequences and spectacle, but criticized its runtime and script. The film grossed $1.490 billion worldwide, becoming the third-highest-grossing film of 2025 and the lowest-grossing film of the Avatar series. It won awards for its visual effects at the 98th Academy Awards and 79th British Academy Film Awards, and was named one of the top ten films of 2025 by the American Film Institute and the National Board of Review. Two sequels, Avatar 4 and Avatar 5, are scheduled for release in 2029 and 2031, respectively.

Title: Avatar: Seven Havens
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar:_Seven_Havens
Summary: Avatar: Seven Havens is an upcoming American animated fantasy action television series created by Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko for Paramount+. It is a sequel show to Avatar: The Last Airbender (2005–2008) and The Legend of Korra (2012–2014). It follows Avatar Pavi, the successor and reincarnation of Korra, as she and her long-lost twin sister Nisha uncover their mysterious origins and save the Seven Havens: the central pillars of civilization, in a new and perilous era. 
The principal voice cast includes Saheli Khan as Avatar Pavi, alongside Aishu Devan, Akshay Khanna, Major Curda, Sakina Jaffrey, Darren Barnet, Dianne Doan, and Dee Bradley Baker. Creatives from both The Last Airbender and Korra returned, including Jeremy Zuckerman creating original music and Ethan Spaulding, who was a story artist and director on both shows, executive producing. The series is produced by Nickelodeon Animation and Avatar Studios, and La Chouette Compagnie provides animation. 
The first season of Avatar: Seven Havens is set to premiere on October 9, 2026, on Paramount+, with its first three episodes. The other ten episodes will be released weekly in three to four episode batches through October 30. A second season of thirteen episodes has also been ordered.