Title: Diana Nyad
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diana_Nyad
Summary: Diana Nyad  (née Sneed; born August 22, 1949) is an American author, journalist, motivational speaker, and long-distance swimmer. Nyad gained national attention in 1975 when she swam around Manhattan (28 mi or 45 km) in record time.
She has written four books and articles for various publications, hosted the public radio program The Savvy Traveler, appeared on the television shows CBS News Sunday Morning and Dancing with the Stars, and been a long-time contributor to the public radio programs All Things Considered and Marketplace.
In 2013, on her fifth attempt and at age 64, she claims (it has never been ratified) that she swam from Havana, Cuba, to Key West, Florida, a journey of 110 mi (180 km), completing the third known swim crossing of the Florida Straits after Walter Poenisch in 1978 and Susie Maroney in 1997. Both of those earlier efforts involved a shark cage and, in Poenisch's case, fins and several short rests on his escort craft. Nyad did not use fins or a cage, but did swim with a protective jellyfish suit, shark divers, and electronic shark repellent devices. Her crossing from Cuba to Florida was not conducted under the supervision of an organized sporting association, and ratification of the accomplishment was later denied by the World Open Water Swimming Association (WOWSA) for various reasons including incomplete observer logs with a 9-hour undocumented gap in observations, conflicting crew reports, nearly a decade of delay in providing documentation to seek formal ratification, dubious claims about the rules followed for the swim, and "backdated and falsified documentation". Guinness World Records initially certified Nyad's achievement, but revoked its certification after considering the findings by WOWSA.
Her 2013 swim and partnership with athlete and businesswoman Bonnie Stoll were dramatized in the 2023 film Nyad, based on her 2015 memoir Find a Way.

Title: World Billiards Championship (English billiards)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Billiards_Championship_(English_billiards)
Summary: The World Billiards Championship (also known as the World Professional Billiards Championship) is an international cue sports tournament in the discipline of English billiards, organised by World Billiards, a subsidiary of the World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association (WPBSA). In its various forms, and usually as a single competition, the title is one of the oldest sporting world championships, having been contested (though irregularly) since 1870.
From 2012 to 2014 there were separate timed and points divisions, with the tournament held in association with the International Billiards and Snooker Federation. In those years, there was no separate IBSF World Billiards Championship.
The tournament has been played annually most years since 1980. The event was known as the World Professional Billiards Championship until 2010. In addition, the World Ladies Billiards Championship has been played since 1931 (with interruptions) and organized by World Ladies Billiards and Snooker since 1998.

Title: FIFAe World Cup
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFAe_World_Cup
Summary: The FIFAe World Cup, formerly the FIFA Interactive World Cup (FIWC) and the FIFA eWorld Cup, is an esports tournament series held by FIFA. From its inception until 2023, the tournaments were held on the latest incarnation of the FIFA association football video game series. The open qualifying format for the tournament allowed millions to compete in the initial online stages, which resulted in the FIWC being recognized as the largest online esports game by Guinness World Records. Due to FIFA and EA Sports parting ways after the release of FIFA 23 and EA launching their own esports circuit known as EA Sports FC Pro for the EA Sports FC series, the FIFAe World Cup has shifted to a football-focused tournament series, with eFootball, Football Manager and Rocket League having tournaments in 2024.
The last FIFAe World Cup champion from the FIFA series was Manuel Bachoore from the Netherlands. Ichsan Taufiq from Indonesia and Minbappe from Malaysia is the current champion from the Football Manager series in console and mobile respectively, while Saudi Arabia's Team Falcons are the current champions from the Rocket League series.

Title: World Women's Snooker Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Women%27s_Snooker_Championship
Summary: The World Women's Snooker Championship (known as the Women's World Open from 1976 to 1981 and the World Ladies Snooker Championship from 1983 to 2018) is the longest-running and most prestigious tournament on the World Women's Snooker Tour. Staged 41 times since the inaugural edition in 1976, it has produced 15 different champions, six of whom have won the title more than once. 
The most successful player in the tournament's history has been Reanne Evans, who has won 12 titles, followed by Allison Fisher with seven titles and Kelly Fisher with five. The inaugural champion was Vera Selby, who won the title twice. Although the tournament had only one winner from outside the United Kingdom before 2014 (Australia's Lesley McIlrath in 1980) most recent editions have been won by Asian players. Hong Kong's Ng On-yee won three titles, in 2015, 2017 and 2018. Thai players Mink Nutcharut and Baipat Siripaporn won in 2022 and 2023 respectively, and China's Bai Yulu claimed her first title in 2024 and a second in 2025.
In 2021, the World Women’s Snooker Tour became an official qualification route to the main professional World Snooker Tour. At the end of each season, the reigning World Women's Snooker Champion receives a professional tour card for the following two seasons, as does the highest-ranked player in the women's rankings who is not already on the tour. If the World Champion is already on the tour, that card will be issued to the next highest ranked player who is not on the tour.

Title: 2024 World Women's Snooker Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_World_Women%27s_Snooker_Championship
Summary: The 2024 World Women's Snooker Championship was a women's snooker tournament that took place from 11 to 17 March 2024 at the Changping Gymnasium in Dongguan, China. Organised by World Women's Snooker and the Chinese Billiards and Snooker Association (CBSA), the tournament was the 41st edition of the World Women's Snooker Championship and the first to be staged in China. The winner received £10,000 from a total prize pool of £33,400, as well as a two-year tour card to the main professional World Snooker Tour from the start of the 2024–25 snooker season. 
A total of 45 players participated in the tournament's round-robin group stage,16 of whom qualified for the knockout stage. Baipat Siripaporn was the defending champion, having defeated Bai Yulu 6‍–‍3 in the 2023 final, but she lost 0–4 to Reanne Evans in the last 16. After coming from 0–3 behind to defeat Evans 5–3 in the semi-finals, Bai defeated Mink Nutcharut 6–5 in the final, winning the deciding frame on the last pink ball to secure her first women's world title. It was Bai's second ranking title from her five ranking event appearances on the women's tour. She became the fourth Asian player to win the women's world title—following Hong Kong's Ng On-yee and Thailand's Mink and Baipat—and the first winner from mainland China. The event produced six century breaks, of which Bai's 122 break in the final was the highest of the tournament and the highest ever made in a women's world final.
The World Women's Under-21 Championship and World Women's Seniors Championship were staged concurrently with the main tournament. Bai also won the Under-21 title, defeating Narucha Phoemphul 3–0 in the final. Tessa Davidson won her second Seniors world title, beating Han Fang 3–1 in the final.