Title: Noma (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noma_(restaurant)
Summary: Noma () is a restaurant and food innovation lab founded by chef René Redzepi and Claus Meyer in Copenhagen, Denmark. The name is a syllabic abbreviation of the two Danish words "nordisk" (Nordic) and "mad" (food). Opened in 2003, the restaurant is known for its focus on foraging, invention and interpretation of New Nordic Cuisine. In 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, and 2021 it was ranked as the Best Restaurant in the World by Restaurant magazine. 
In January 2023, Redzepi announced that Noma would transition away from traditional restaurant service, with its final regular dinner service taking place in Kyoto, Japan, in December 2024. Noma continues to operate as a food lab and through periodic pop-up residencies.

Title: Restaurant Guy Savoy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Restaurant_Guy_Savoy
Summary: Restaurant Guy Savoy (French: [ɡi savwa]; is a French restaurant located in Paris, France created by Guy Savoy in 1980.  A second location opened at Caesars Palace on the Las Vegas Strip in 2006.

Title: Rosetta (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosetta_(restaurant)
Summary: Rosetta is a restaurant in Colonia Roma, Cuauhtémoc, specializing in Mexican cuisine with Mediterranean—primarily Italian—influences. Founded in 2010, it offers a seasonal à la carte menu. The restaurant is owned by chef Elena Reygadas, a graduate of the International Culinary Center who previously worked at Locanda Locatelli in London. Rosetta has received favorable reviews from food critics, with particular praise for its pasta and bread. The British company William Reed Ltd has ranked the restaurant three times on its list of the World's 50 Best Restaurants and Reygadas was named their Best Female Chef in 2023. Rosetta was awarded one Michelin star in 2024 in the first Michelin Guide covering restaurants in Mexico.

Title: Maido (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maido_(restaurant)
Summary: Maido  is a fusion restaurant opened in October 2009 in Miraflores, Lima, Peru. It is owned and headed by chef Mitsuharu "Micha" Tsumura. Maido's dishes are rooted in Nikkei cuisine, which blends Peruvian and Japanese cuisines. Maido was ranked first in the World's 50 Best Restaurants in 2025.

Title: Alchemist (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alchemist_(restaurant)
Summary: Alchemist is a two Michelin-star restaurant founded and run by chef Rasmus Munk, in Copenhagen, Denmark. The restaurant is placed in the top 10 of The World's 50 Best Restaurants, ranking 8th in 2024 and 5th in 2025. In 2024, it was described by The New Yorker as "one of the most sought-after reservations in the fine-dining world". According to Munk, the restaurant has "a holistic approach extending beyond the plate to create thought-provoking, aesthetical, emotional and gastrophysical meal experiences."