Title: AMA Superbike Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMA_Superbike_Championship
Summary: AMA Superbike Championship is an American motorcycle racing series based in the United States. The series is organized by MotoAmerica and is sanctioned by the American Motorcyclist Association (AMA) as well as the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM). For most of its existence it has been considered the premier motorcycle road racing series in the United States. The championship features “highly modified, production based liter class motorcycles” competing at premier tracks across the country.
The AMA Superbike Championship can trace its roots back to the AMA Open Production event that began in 1973. AMA Open Production was hosted alongside the AMA Road Race National at Laguna Seca Raceway in 1973 and 1974. By 1976, the event became a major class, appearing at all 4 AMA Grand Nationals that season, and its name was changed to Superbike Production. In 1986, the AMA made the Grand National Championship into a dirt-track-only series splitting off the road-racing rounds into their own series, the Superbike Production events became the AMA Superbike Championship. In 2015 MotoAmerica became the series organizer, resulting in all AMA Superbike Championship events being held under the MotoAmerica name.

Title: Superbike World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superbike_World_Championship
Summary: Superbike World Championship (also known as WorldSBK, SBK, World Superbike, WSB, or WSBK) is a silhouette road racing series based on heavily modified production sports motorcycles.
The championship was founded in 1988. The Superbike World Championship consists of a series of rounds held on permanent racing facilities. Each round has two full length races and, from 2019, an additional ten-lap sprint race known as the Superpole race. The results of all three races are combined to determine three annual World Championships, one for riders, one for manufacturers and, as of 2024, a Teams World Championship.
The motorcycles that race in the championship are tuned versions of motorcycles available for sale to the public, by contrast with MotoGP where purpose built machines are used. MotoGP is the motorcycle world's equivalent of Formula One, whereas Superbike racing is similar to sports car racing.
Europe is Superbike World Championship's traditional centre and leading market. However, rounds have been held in the United States, Canada, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Japan, Argentina, Australia, New Zealand, Qatar, and South Africa and the series plans on keeping extra-European circuits in rotation. 
The championship is regulated by the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM) and organised by MotoGP Sports Entertainment Group.

Title: Toprak Razgatlıoğlu
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toprak_Razgatl%C4%B1o%C4%9Flu
Summary: Toprak Razgatlıoğlu (Turkish pronunciation: ['topɾak 'ɾazgatɫɯ'oːɫu]; born 16 October 1996) is a Turkish motorcycle road racer who, from 2026, rides for Prima Pramac Yamaha MotoGP in the MotoGP World Championship. Razgatlıoğlu holds three Superbike World Championship titles: 2021 with the Yamaha factory Superbike team, ending Jonathan Rea's six-year reign, 2024 and 2025 with the BMW Motorrad WorldSBK Team, the manufacturer's first two titles. He is the first Turkish Superbike World Champion and the rider with the most wins for both Yamaha and BMW in the championship, with 37 and 39 total victories, respectively.
Razgatlıoğlu is well known for his 'stoppie' celebration. He is also known for his dominating record, being called a Superbike equivalent to Marc Márquez. He joined Pramac Racing for the 2026 season, the year before the 2027 Regulation change, and became the first MotoGP rider hailing from Turkey. He is the first WSBK rider since Loris Baz to switch to MotoGP and the first WSBK champion since Ben Spies.

Title: 2024 Formula One World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Formula_One_World_Championship
Summary: The 2024 FIA Formula One World Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and was the 75th running of the Formula One World Championship. It was recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the governing body of international motorsport, as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. The championship was contested over a record twenty-four Grands Prix held around the world.
Drivers and teams competed for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion, respectively. Defending Drivers' Champion Max Verstappen of Red Bull Racing dominated the opening 10 races with seven wins, however the season as a whole was highly competitive with a record-making six other drivers claiming multiple Grand Prix victories. McLaren driver Lando Norris emerged as Verstappen's closest competitor as the MCL38 began to consistently outperform the RB20. Verstappen maintained his points advantage to win his fourth consecutive Drivers' Championship title at the Las Vegas Grand Prix. Verstappen's title made him only third drivers' champion after Keke Rosberg in 1982 and Nelson Piquet in 1983 to win the drivers' championship with a team that finished 3rd or lower in the constructors' championship, and the second driver after Piquet to win the drivers' championship in a team that did not become constructors' champions on two or more occasions. McLaren surpassed Red Bull and went on to achieve their ninth Constructors' Championship title at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, narrowly ahead of Ferrari by just 14 points. With their first Constructors' Championship victory in 26 years, McLaren became the first constructor other than Red Bull and Mercedes to win the title since Brawn in 2009.

Title: 2024 MotoGP World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_MotoGP_World_Championship
Summary: The 2024 FIM MotoGP World Championship was the premier class of the 76th Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM) Road Racing World Championship season, the highest level of competition in motorcycle road racing.
Spanish rider Jorge Martín with Prima Pramac Racing was crowned Riders' World Champion, the first independent team rider to do so in the MotoGP era and first since Valentino Rossi with Nastro Azzurro Honda in 2001. With 17 sprint and 19 Grand Prix victories from 20 racing weekends, Ducati dominated the season to take their sixth Constructors' World Championship, with the factory team taking the Teams' World Championship. This season also saw Japanese manufacturers struggling for the entire season as they failed to score a single race win for the first time since 1970.