Title: Heathrow Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heathrow_Airport
Summary: London Heathrow Airport (IATA: LHR, ICAO: EGLL) – named London Airport until 1966 – is the primary and largest international airport serving London, the capital of England and the United Kingdom. It is the largest of the six international airports in the London airport system (the others being Gatwick, Stansted, Luton, City, and Southend).
The airport is owned and operated by Heathrow Airport Holdings. In 2025, Heathrow was the busiest airport in Europe, the fifth-busiest airport in the world by passenger traffic and the second-busiest airport in the world by international passenger traffic. Heathrow was the airport with the most international connections in the world in 2024.
Heathrow was founded as a small airfield in 1930 but was developed into a much larger airport after World War II. It lies 14 miles (23 km) west of Central London on a site that covers 4.74 square miles (12.3 km2). It was gradually expanded over 75 years and now has two parallel east–west runways, four operational passenger terminals and one cargo terminal. The airport is the primary hub for British Airways and Virgin Atlantic.

Title: Montréal–Trudeau International Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Montr%C3%A9al%E2%80%93Trudeau_International_Airport
Summary: Montréal–Trudeau International Airport (IATA: YUL, ICAO: CYUL) (French: Aéroport International Montréal-Trudeau) or Montréal–Trudeau, formerly known and still commonly referred to as Montréal–Dorval International Airport (Aéroport international Montréal-Dorval), is an international airport straddling the border of Dorval and Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It is the only Transport Canada designated international airport serving Montreal and is situated 15 km (9.3 mi) west of Downtown Montreal. The airport terminals are located entirely in the suburb of Dorval, while one runway is located in the Montreal borough of Saint-Laurent. Air Canada, the country's flag carrier, also has its corporate headquarters complex on the Saint-Laurent side of the airport. It also serves Greater Montreal and adjacent regions in Quebec and eastern Ontario, as well as the states of Vermont and northern New York in the United States. The airport is named in honour of Pierre Trudeau (1919–2000), the 15th Prime Minister of Canada.
The airport is one of two managed and operated by Aéroports de Montréal (ADM), a not-for-profit corporation without share capital; the other is Montréal–Mirabel northwest of Montreal, which was initially intended to replace the one in Dorval but now deals almost solely with cargo and private flights. Montréal–Trudeau is owned by Transport Canada which has a 60-year lease with Aéroports de Montréal, as per Canada's National Airport Policy of 1994.
Trudeau is the busiest airport in the province of Quebec and the third-busiest airport in Canada by passenger traffic, with 22.4 million passengers in 2025. It is one of nine Canadian airports with United States border preclearance and is one of the main gateways into Canada with 15.79 million or 71% of its passengers being on non-domestic flights, the highest proportion amongst Canada's airports. YUL has also risen to become the 5th busiest transatlantic hub in North America. The route between Montreal and Paris is Canada's busiest international route and the 6th busiest international route from North America, with more than 1.5 million passengers a year. It is one of three Air Canada hubs and, in that capacity, serves mainly Quebec, the Atlantic Provinces and Eastern Ontario. On an average day, 58,000 passengers transit through Montréal-Trudeau.
Airlines servicing Trudeau offer year-round non-stop flights to five continents, namely Africa, Asia, Europe, North and South America. It is one of only two airports in Canada with non-stop flights to five continents, the other being Toronto Pearson International Airport. Trudeau airport is the headquarters of and a large hub for Air Canada, the country's largest airline. It is also the headquarters of Air Inuit and Air Transat, and an operation base for Porter Airlines. It also plays a role in general aviation as home to the headquarters of Innotech-Execair, Starlink, ACASS and Maintenance Repair & Overhaul (MRO) facilities of Air Transat and Air Inuit. Transport Canada operates a Civil Aviation Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul facility on site, with a fleet of Government owned and operated civil aircraft. Bombardier Aerospace has an assembly facility on site where they build Global and Challenger business jets.

Title: Denver International Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denver_International_Airport
Summary: Denver International Airport (IATA: DEN, ICAO: KDEN, FAA LID: DEN), often referred to by locals as DIA, is an international airport in the Western United States, primarily serving metropolitan Denver, Colorado, as well as the greater Front Range Urban Corridor.
Runway 16R/34L, with a length of 16000 ft (4877 m), is the longest public use runway in North America and the fifth longest in the world. The airport is 25 miles (40 km) driving distance northeast of Downtown Denver, 19 miles (31 km) farther than the former Stapleton International Airport which DEN replaced; the airport is actually closer to the city of Aurora than central Denver, and many airport-related services, such as hotels, are located in Aurora.
Opened on February 28, 1995, DEN serves 26 airlines (as of 2025) providing nonstop service to 230 destinations throughout the Americas, Europe, and Asia; it was the fourth airport in the United States to exceed 200 destinations. The airport has been the largest operating hub for Frontier Airlines and Southwest Airlines for several years and, as of 2024, DEN has eclipsed Chicago's O'Hare International Airport as the largest operating hub for United Airlines as well. The Colorado Department of Transportation's 2025 Economic Impact Study estimated that the airport contributes $47.2 billion annually to Colorado's economy and, with over 40,000 employees, the airport is the largest employer in the state of Colorado. The airport is located on the western edge of the Great Plains and within sight of the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains.
In 2021 and 2022, DEN was the third busiest airport in the world as well as the third busiest airport in the United States by passenger traffic. In 2023, it was the sixth busiest airport in the world and remained the third busiest in the United States, having served around 77.8 million passengers, more than a 12% increase from the prior year. DEN has been among the top 20 busiest airports in the world and top 10 busiest airports in the United States every year since 2000.
In 2025, DEN set an all-time passenger record with 82,427,962 passengers served, up 0.1% over the previous record set in 2024.

Title: Montréal–Mirabel International Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Montr%C3%A9al%E2%80%93Mirabel_International_Airport
Summary: Montréal–Mirabel International Airport (IATA: YMX, ICAO: CYMX), originally called Montréal International Airport, widely known as Mirabel and branded as YMX International Aerocity of Mirabel, is a cargo and former international passenger airport in Mirabel, Quebec, Canada, 21 nautical miles (39 km; 24 mi) northwest of Montreal. It opened on October 4, 1975, and the last commercial passenger flight took off on October 31, 2004.
The airport is mainly used for cargo flights, but it is also home to medevac and general aviation flights, and hosts a manufacturing plant for Airbus, where final assembly of the Airbus A220 (formerly Bombardier CSeries) is conducted. Bombardier Aviation produced the Bombardier CRJ700 series of regional jets at the factory until early 2021. The former passenger terminal apron is now a racing course, and the terminal building was demolished in 2016.
Prior to the demolition of the passenger terminal, Montréal–Mirabel International Airport was classified as an airport of entry (AOE) by Nav Canada and was staffed by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA). A smaller AOE for general aviation with no more than 15 people on board is still available from Hélibellule, Nolinor, and Mirajet. In addition it is one of ten Canadian airport classified as an airport of entry for cargo flights. It is part of the National Airports System and it was one of two airports in Canada with sufficient right-of-way that can be expanded to accommodate 50 million passengers per year, the other being Toronto Pearson International Airport. A lack of traffic meant that Mirabel was never expanded beyond its first phase. As a result of a controversial land expropriation, Mirabel would have been the largest airport in the world by surface area, with a planned area spanning a property totaling 39,660 hectares (396.6 km2; 98,000 acres). In 1989, 32,780 hectares (81,000 acres) of that were deeded back to their original owners.
The airport was intended to replace the existing Dorval Airport as the eastern air gateway to Canada. Accordingly, from 1975 to 1997, all international flights to and from Montreal (except for flights to and from the United States) were required to use Mirabel. Mirabel's distant location, its inadequate transport links to urban centres, and the continued operation of domestic flights from Dorval Airport made Mirabel very unpopular with travellers and airlines. It did not help that Montreal's economy declined relative to that of Toronto during the 1970s and 1980s, while newer long-range airliners no longer needed to refuel in Montreal prior to trans-Atlantic flights, so passenger levels never approached the levels that had been anticipated. The original plan to eventually close Dorval was discarded, and Mirabel thus turned out to be a white elephant.
A decision was made to consolidate Montreal's passenger traffic at Dorval, with scheduled flights and charter flights being shifted in 1997 and 2004, so Mirabel was relegated to the role of a cargo airport. In 2004, Dorval Airport was renamed Montréal–Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport, after the Canadian prime minister whose government initiated the Mirabel project, the aim of which was to close and replace the Dorval airport. During the 2000s, Dorval was renovated and expanded, which enabled it to handle the passenger levels that the Trudeau government initially claimed would require two airports. Between 2008 and 2018, Mirabel's air traffic more than tripled due to the use of private passenger flights, helicopter flights and flight schools, leading to Aéroports de Montréal renaming the airport to YMX International Aerocity of Mirabel to emphasize it as a business facility.

Title: El Salvador International Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Salvador_International_Airport
Summary: El Salvador International Airport Saint Óscar Arnulfo Romero y Galdámez (Spanish: Aeropuerto Internacional de El Salvador San Óscar Arnulfo Romero y Galdámez), (IATA: SAL, ICAO: MSLP), previously known as Comalapa International Airport (Aeropuerto Internacional de Comalapa) and as Comalapa Air Base (Base Aérea de Comalapa) to the military, is a joint-use civilian and military airport that serves San Salvador, El Salvador. It is located in the south central area of the country, in the city of San Luis Talpa, Department of La Paz, and occupies a triangle of 2,519.8 acres (1,019.7 ha), bordered by the Pacific Ocean on the south and the Jiboa River on the east, with the coastal highway to the northwest. It is close to sea level allowing aircraft to operate efficiently at maximum capacity. It is connected to the capital of San Salvador, El Salvador, by a four-lane motorway, with 42 kilometres (26 mi) travel in an average time of 30 minutes.
It is third in Central America in movement of passengers with 3,411,015 annually, counted without methodology, suggested by International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). It is classified as category 1 by the Federal Aviation Administration of the United States (FAA) and is certified by the Civil Aviation Authority (AAC), the first airport on the isthmus to achieve these certifications. In the Skytrax World Airport Awards 2015, it was recognized as the third best airport in Central America and the Caribbean. According to the World Economic Forum, it has the second most competitive infrastructure in the region, achieving a score of 4.8 out of 7. In addition, ICAO recognizes it as having one of the best security standards on the continent, only exceeded by airports in the United States and Canada.