Title: Rotterdam
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rotterdam
Summary: Rotterdam ( ROT-ər-dam, UK also  ROT-ər-DAM; Dutch: [ˌrɔtərˈdɑm] ) is the second-largest city in the Netherlands by population and the largest by area (319.4 km2). It is in the province of South Holland, part of the North Sea mouth of the Rhine–Meuse–Scheldt delta, via the New Meuse inland shipping channel, dug to connect to the Meuse at first and now to the Rhine.
Rotterdam's history goes back to 1270, when a dam was constructed in the Rotte. In 1340, Rotterdam was granted city rights by William IV, Count of Holland.
The Rotterdam–The Hague metropolitan area, with a population of approximately 2.7 million, is the 10th-largest in the European Union and the most populous in the country.
A major logistic and economic centre, Rotterdam is Europe's largest seaport. In 2022, Rotterdam had a population of 655,468 and is home to over 180 different nationalities.
Rotterdam is known for its university, riverside setting, lively cultural life, maritime heritage and modern architecture. The near-complete destruction of the city centre during the World War II German bombing has resulted in a varied architectural landscape, including skyscrapers designed by architects such as Rem Koolhaas, Piet Blom and Ben van Berkel.
The Rhine, Meuse and Scheldt give waterway access into the heart of Western Europe, including the highly industrialized Ruhr. The extensive distribution system including rail, roads, and waterways have earned Rotterdam the nicknames "Gateway to Europe" and "Gateway to the World".

Title: 2026 in American television
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_in_American_television
Summary: Certain American television events in 2026 have been scheduled. Events listed include television show debuts, finales, and cancellations; channel launches, closures, and rebrandings; stations changing or adding their network affiliations; information on controversies, business transactions, and carriage disputes; and deaths of those who made various contributions to the medium.

Title: Schoof cabinet
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schoof_cabinet
Summary: The Schoof cabinet was the cabinet of the Netherlands from on 2 July 2024 until 23 February 2026. Led by independent politician and civil servant Dick Schoof as prime minister of the Netherlands, the cabinet was formed after the 2023 Dutch general election by the Party for Freedom (PVV), the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD), New Social Contract (NSC), and the Farmer–Citizen Movement (BBB). It was the first time that the PVV, NSC and BBB have had seats in government. Political analysts concluded that the influence of the Netherlands on EU policy was significantly reduced, when the Schoof cabinet is compared to its predecessor, the Fourth Rutte cabinet. 
The cabinet fell after the PVV left the coalition and cabinet on 3 June 2025 due to disagreements on asylum policy. As a demissionary cabinet it continued working until the Jetten cabinet was sworn in on 23 February 2026, but according to convention it was not permitted to make major decisions. NSC left the coalition on 22 August 2025.

Title: 2026 NFL season
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_NFL_season
Summary: The 2026 NFL season is the 107th season of the National Football League (NFL). The regular season began on September 9, 2026, with reigning Super Bowl champion Seattle defeating New England in the NFL Kickoff Game, and will end on January 10, 2027. The playoffs will begin on January 16 and conclude with Super Bowl LXI at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, California, on February 14.

Title: Abdication of Henri, Grand Duke of Luxembourg
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abdication_of_Henri,_Grand_Duke_of_Luxembourg
Summary: Grand Duke Henri abdicated the throne of Luxembourg in favour of his eldest son, Guillaume V, on 3 October 2025 at the Grand Ducal Palace in Luxembourg City.