Title: Masters Tournament
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Masters_Tournament
Summary: The Masters Tournament (usually referred to as simply the Masters, or as the U.S. Masters outside North America) is one of the four men's major championships in professional golf. Scheduled for the first full week in April, the Masters is the first major golf tournament of the year. Unlike the other major tournaments which change host venues with each tournament, the Masters is always held at the same host venue: Augusta National Golf Club, a private course in the city of Augusta, Georgia.
Amateur golf champion Bobby Jones and investment banker Clifford Roberts founded the tournament. After his grand slam in 1930, Jones acquired a former plant nursery and co-designed Augusta National with course architect Alister MacKenzie. First played in 1934 as the "Augusta National Invitation Tournament", the Masters is an official money event on the PGA Tour, the European Tour, and the Japan Golf Tour. The field of players is smaller than those of the other major championships because it is an invitational event, held by the Augusta National Golf Club.
The tournament has a number of traditions. Since the 1949 Masters, a green jacket (specifically Pantone 342C, "Augusta Green") has been awarded to the champion, who must return it to the clubhouse one year after his victory, although it remains his personal property and is stored with other champions' jackets in a specially designated cloakroom. In most instances, only a first-time and reigning champion may remove his jacket from the club grounds. A golfer who wins the event multiple times uses the same green jacket awarded upon his initial win unless he needs to be re-fitted with a new jacket. The Champions Dinner, inaugurated by Ben Hogan at the 1952 Masters, is held on the Tuesday before each Masters and is open only to past champions and certain board members of the Augusta National Golf Club. Beginning in 1963, distinguished golfers, usually past champions, have hit an honorary tee shot on the morning of the first round to commence play. These have included Fred McLeod, Jock Hutchinson, Gene Sarazen, Sam Snead, Byron Nelson, Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player, Lee Elder, and Tom Watson. Since 1960, a semi-social contest on the Par 3 course has been played on Wednesday, the day before the first round.
Nicklaus has the most Masters wins, with six between 1963 and 1986. Tiger Woods won five between 1997 and 2019. Palmer won four between 1958 and 1964. Five have won three titles at Augusta: Jimmy Demaret, Sam Snead, Gary Player, Nick Faldo, and Phil Mickelson. Gary Player, from South Africa, was the first non-American player to win the tournament, in 1961; the second was Seve Ballesteros of Spain, the champion in 1980 and 1983.
The Augusta National course first opened in 1933 and has been modified many times by different architects. Among the changes: greens have been reshaped and, on occasion, entirely re-designed, bunkers have been added, water hazards have been extended, new tee boxes have been built, hundreds of trees have been planted, and several mounds have been installed.

Title: China Masters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China_Masters
Summary: The China Masters (Chinese: 中国羽毛球大师赛, formerly known as Fuzhou China Open) is an annual badminton tournament held in China. It became part of the BWF Super Series tournaments in 2007. Following the restructurisation to BWF World Tour, since 2018 it became one of only six tournaments to be granted Super 750 level and was renamed as Fuzhou China Open. From 2023 onwards, the tournament is held in Shenzhen, and its name is changed back to its former name, China Masters.

Title: 2024 Masters Tournament
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Masters_Tournament
Summary: The 2024 Masters Tournament was the 88th edition of the Masters Tournament and the first of the men's four major golf championships held in 2024. The tournament was played from April 11–14 at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, United States. Scottie Scheffler won his second Masters and major, four strokes ahead of runner-up Ludvig Åberg, who was playing in his first major. Scheffler became the fourth-youngest two-time winner of the tournament and the second player, after Tiger Woods in 2001, to win both the Masters and The Players Championship in the same calendar year.

Title: Valorant Masters Madrid 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valorant_Masters_Madrid_2024
Summary: Valorant Masters Madrid 2024 was a global tournament organized by Riot Games for the first-person shooter game Valorant as part of the Valorant Champions Tour 2024 competitive season. The tournament was held from March 14–24, 2024, in Madrid, Spain. The finalists of each regional league of VCT Kickoffs competed in the first major tournament of the season, which included the three International Leagues (Americas, EMEA, Pacific) and the China League.
Before the finals, an exhibition game was played between Team Spain and Team International to showcase the new agent Clove. Alongside other agents, both teams had Clove (mimi for Team International and mixwell for Team Spain) in their rosters. In that match, Team Spain defeated Team International 13-8.
Americas' Sentinels claimed their second global event title as they defeated Pacific's Gen.G in a five-game championship series, 3–2, to become the first ever two-time Masters champions. Zachary "zekken" Patrone of Sentinels earned the Finals MVP award garnering a 101/85/29 KDA during the series.

Title: 2025 Masters Tournament
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_Masters_Tournament
Summary: The 2025 Masters Tournament was the 89th edition of the Masters Tournament and the first of the men's four major golf championships held in 2025. The tournament was played from April 10–13 at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, United States. Rory McIlroy won the tournament after the first hole of a sudden-death playoff against Justin Rose. In doing so, McIlroy became the sixth player, and the first European, to complete the modern career Grand Slam, this being his 11th attempt.  Additionally, McIlroy became the third player, after Tiger Woods in 2001 and Scottie Scheffler in 2024, to win the Masters and The Players Championship in the same calendar year.