Title: Marathon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marathon
Summary: The marathon is a long-distance foot race with a distance of 42.195 kilometres (c. 26.22 mi), usually run as a road race, but the distance can be covered on trail routes. The marathon can be completed by running or with a run/walk strategy. There are also wheelchair divisions. More than 800 marathons are held worldwide each year, with the vast majority of competitors being recreational athletes, as larger marathons can have tens of thousands of participants.
A creation of the French philologist Michel Bréal inspired by a story from Ancient Greece, the marathon was one of the original modern Olympic events in 1896 in Athens. The distance did not become standardized until 1921. The distance is also included in the World Athletics Championships, which began in 1983. It is the only running road race included in both championship competitions (walking races on roads are also contested in both).

Title: Marathon world record progression
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marathon_world_record_progression
Summary: World records in the marathon are ratified by World Athletics, the international governing body for the sport of athletics.
Sabastian Sawe set the men's world record of 1:59:30 at the London Marathon on April 26, 2026, becoming the first person in history to run a sub two-hour marathon in race conditions. 
Kenyan athlete Ruth Chepng'etich broke the women's world record with a time of 2:09:56 on October 13, 2024, at the 2024 Chicago Marathon, a mixed-sex race.
In addition to the standard women's marathon world record, World Athletics recognizes a second world record for women in the "Women Only" category for races run on a course without any male athletes in the competition. The current "Women Only" record of 2:15:41 was set by Tigst Assefa on April 26, 2026, at the London Marathon in the elite women's race.

Title: World Marathon Majors
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Marathon_Majors
Summary: The World Marathon Majors (WMM) is a championship-style competition for marathon runners that started in 2006. A points-based competition founded on eight major marathon races recognised as the most high-profile on the calendar, the series comprises annual races (in order of their founding) for the cities of Boston (1897), New York (1970), Berlin (1974), Chicago (1977), London (1981), Cape Town (1994), Sydney (2000), and Tokyo (2007).
In addition, the World Marathon Majors includes the results of any major global championship marathon held in that year. These races are the biennial World Athletics Championships Marathon, and the quadrennial Olympic Games Marathon.

Title: Jasmin Paris
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jasmin_Paris
Summary: Jasmin Karina Paris  (born November 1983) is a British runner who has been a national fell running champion and who has set records for the Bob Graham Round and the Ramsay Round. In 2024, she became the first woman to successfully complete the Barkley Marathons.
She won the 2016 Skyrunner World Series Sky Extreme category, and a bronze medal at the 2016 Skyrunning World Championships in the Sky Ultra category. She received significant media attention for beating the all-time men's course record by 12 hours at the 2019 Spine Race. 
She is a senior lecturer in the Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies at the University of Edinburgh.

Title: Concerns and controversies at the 2024 Summer Olympics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concerns_and_controversies_at_the_2024_Summer_Olympics
Summary: Numerous concerns and controversies arose leading up to and during the 2024 Summer Olympics, which were held in Paris, France. Major concerns included security, Israel's participation amidst the Gaza war, and the inclusion of Russian and Belarusian athletes as neutrals amidst the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Despite the nominal Olympic Truce, both conflicts contributed to the complex political backdrop of the Games.