Title: British Airways
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_Airways
Summary: British Airways plc (BA) is the flag carrier airline of the United Kingdom, based in London, England. It is headquartered at the Waterside building, adjacent to its main hub at Heathrow Airport.
The airline is the second largest UK-based carrier, based on fleet size and passengers carried, behind easyJet. In January 2011, BA merged with Iberia, creating the International Airlines Group (IAG), a holding company registered in Madrid, Spain. British Airways was the first passenger airline to generate more than US$1 billion on a single air route in a year.
In 1972 a British Airways Board was established by the Government of the United Kingdom to manage the two nationalised airline corporations, British Overseas Airways Corporation and British European Airways, and two regional airlines, Cambrian Airways and Northeast Airlines. On 31 March 1974, all four companies were merged to form British Airways. BA was privatised in February 1987 as part of a wider privatisation plan by the Thatcher government. The carrier expanded with the acquisition of British Caledonian in 1987, Dan-Air in 1992, TAT European Airlines in 1993 and British Midland International in 2012.
The company has received public support, including a bailout equivalent to £300 million during the COVID-19 crisis. After the bailout, the company was a recipient of funding through the UK's furlough scheme, as well as receiving an additional £2 billion in a state backed loan in 2021.

Title: Qantas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qantas
Summary: Qantas Airways Limited ( KWON-təs), doing business as QANTAS or Qantas, is the flag carrier airline of Australia, and the largest airline by fleet size, international flights, and international destinations in Oceania. A founding member of the Oneworld airline alliance, it is the only airline in the world that flies to all seven continents, with it operating flights to Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Europe, North America, and South America from its hubs in Sydney, Perth, Melbourne, and Brisbane. It also flies to over 60 domestic destinations across Australia.
Qantas is one of the world's oldest airlines still in operation, originally founded in November 1920. Qantas is an acronym of the airline's original name, Queensland And Northern Territory Aerial Services, as it originally served Queensland and the Northern Territory. Since then, the airline has undergone several changes, including nationalisation in 1947 and privatisation as a new company in 1967. It is popularly nicknamed "The Flying Kangaroo" and has the official slogan "Spirit of Australia".
Qantas is based in the Sydney suburb of Mascot, adjacent to its main hub at Sydney Airport. As of March 2023, Qantas Group had a 60.8% share of the Australian domestic market. Various subsidiary airlines operate to regional centres and on some trunk routes within Australia, as well as some short haul international flights under the QantasLink banner. Qantas owns Jetstar, a low-cost airline that operates both international services from Australia and domestic services within Australia and New Zealand. It holds stakes in a number of other Jetstar-branded airlines in Asia, as well as Alliance Airlines and Fiji Airways.

Title: Aeroflot
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aeroflot
Summary: PJSC Aeroflot – Russian Airlines (Russian: ПАО «Аэрофло́т — Росси́йские авиали́нии», PAO Aeroflot — Rossiyskiye avialinii), commonly known as Aeroflot (English:   or  ; Russian: Аэрофлот, transl. "air fleet", pronounced [ɐɛrɐˈfɫot]), is the flag carrier and the largest airline of Russia. Aeroflot is headquartered in the Central Administrative Okrug, Moscow, with its hub being Sheremetyevo International Airport. The Federal Agency for State Property Management, an agency of the Government of Russia, owns 73.77% of the company, with the rest of the shares being public float.
During the time of the Soviet Union, Aeroflot was one of the largest airlines in the world. In 1992, following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Aeroflot was divided into approximately 400 regional airlines informally known as Babyflots and was restructured into an open joint-stock company.
It has a market share in Russia of approximately 42.3%. Including subsidiaries, the company carried 55.3 million passengers in 2024. Aeroflot also owns Rossiya Airlines and Pobeda, a low-cost carrier. In 2022, the airline was banned from flying into the European Union.
The Aeroflot fleet, excluding subsidiaries, includes 171 airplanes: 112 Airbus planes and 59 Boeing planes. The company plans on making the Yakovlev MC-21 its flagship plane, with deliveries expected to start in 2027.

Title: Finnair
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finnair
Summary: Finnair Plc (Finnish: Finnair Oyj, Swedish: Finnair Abp) is the flag carrier and largest full-service legacy airline of Finland, with headquarters in Vantaa on the grounds of Helsinki Airport, its hub. Finnair and its subsidiaries dominate both domestic and international air travel in Finland. The majority shareholder is the Finnish State, which owns 55.68% of shares through the Prime Minister's Office. Finnair is a member of Oneworld alliance. Founded in 1923, Finnair is one of the oldest airlines in continuous operation and is consistently listed as one of the safest in the world. The company's slogans are Designed for you and The Nordic Way.

Title: Malaysia Airlines Flight 370
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malaysia_Airlines_Flight_370
Summary: Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 (MH370 / MAS370) was an international passenger flight operated by Malaysia Airlines that disappeared from radar on 8 March 2014 while flying from Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Malaysia to its planned destination, Beijing Capital International Airport in China, with the 227 passengers and 12 crew members on board. The cause of its disappearance has not been determined. It is widely regarded as the greatest mystery in aviation history.
The crew of the Boeing 777, registered as 9M-MRO, last communicated with air traffic control (ATC) around 38 minutes after takeoff when the flight was over the South China Sea. The aircraft was lost from ATC's secondary surveillance radar screens minutes later, but was tracked by the Malaysian military's primary radar system for another hour, deviating westward from its planned flight path. It left radar range 200 nautical miles (370 km; 230 mi) west-northwest of Penang Island in northwestern Peninsular Malaysia.
With all 227 passengers and 12 crew aboard presumed dead, the disappearance of Flight 370 was the deadliest incident involving a Boeing 777, the deadliest of 2014, and the deadliest in Malaysia Airlines' history until it was surpassed in all three regards by Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 on 17 July 2014. Relying mostly on the analysis of data from the Inmarsat satellite with which the aircraft last communicated, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) initially proposed that a hypoxia event was the most likely cause given the available evidence, although no consensus has been reached among investigators concerning this theory. At various stages of the investigation, possible hijacking scenarios were considered, including crew involvement, and suspicion of the aircraft's cargo manifest; many disappearance theories regarding the flight have also been reported by the media.
The search for the missing aircraft became the most expensive search in the history of aviation. It focused initially on the South China Sea and Andaman Sea, before a novel analysis of the aircraft's automated communications with an Inmarsat satellite indicated that the aircraft had travelled far southward over the southern Indian Ocean. Several pieces of debris washed ashore in the western Indian Ocean during 2015 and 2016; many of these were confirmed to have originated from Flight 370. After a three-year search across 120,000 km2 (46,000 sq mi) of ocean failed to locate the aircraft, the Joint Agency Coordination Centre heading the operation suspended its activities in January 2017. A second search launched in January 2018 by private contractor Ocean Infinity also ended without success after six months. The Malaysian Ministry of Transport's final report from July 2018 was inconclusive. It highlighted Malaysian ATC's fruitless attempts to communicate with the aircraft shortly after its disappearance.
In the absence of a definitive cause of disappearance, air transport industry safety recommendations and regulations citing Flight 370 have been implemented to prevent a repetition of the circumstances associated with the loss. These include increased battery life on underwater locator beacons, lengthening of recording times on flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders, and new standards for aircraft position reporting over open ocean.