Title: Aya Nakamura
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aya_Nakamura
Summary: Aya Coco Danioko (born 10 May 1995), known professionally as Aya Nakamura (French: [aja nakamuʁa] ), is a French and Malian singer-songwriter. She began publishing her music online in 2014, gaining a following with the songs "Karma" and "J'ai mal". Dembo Camara, a longtime friend, became her producer and manager. Her song "Brisé" gained traction on YouTube, and a duet with rapper Fababy, "Love d'un voyou", resulted in her charting in France for the first time. She released her debut album, Journal intime, in 2017, followed in 2018 by Nakamura, which was certified diamond in France and has sold more than 1.2 million copies worldwide. The album spawned the hit singles "Djadja" and "Copines" and launched the singer's international career. The same year, she beat the record held by Édith Piaf since 1961 as the most-listened-to francophone woman in the Netherlands.
Nakamura has accumulated six number-one songs and two number-one albums in France. She was awarded a Victoires de la Musique award for her 2020 album, Aya, which was certified double platinum in 2023, having sold 200,000 copies. She also won an NRJ Music Award and received multiple nominations for the MTV Europe Music Award for Best French Act. Two years after its release, Nakamura surpassed a billion streams on Spotify, making the singer the most-listened-to francophone woman on the platform.
On 23 February 2025, the video for Nakamura's single "Djadja" became the fourth French-language song to surpass a billion views on YouTube, behind Indila's "Dernière danse", Stromae's "Papaoutai", and Willy William's "Ego". She is the first African musician to have a video with over a billion views, and she is the fastest French-speaking artist to reach this milestone in six years.

Title: Jimin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jimin
Summary: Park Ji-min (Korean: 박지민; born October 13, 1995), known mononymously as Jimin, is a South Korean singer, songwriter, and dancer. In 2013, he made his debut as a member of the South Korean boy band BTS, under the record label Big Hit Entertainment. Jimin has released three solo tracks under BTS' name—"Lie" in 2016, "Serendipity" in 2017, and "Filter" in 2020—all of which have charted on South Korea's Gaon Digital Chart.
He released his first credited solo song, the digital track "Promise", which he co-wrote, in 2018 and recorded the duet "With You" with Ha Sung-woon for the soundtrack for the TvN drama Our Blues in 2022. Jimin released his debut solo album, Face in 2023, which debuted at number one in South Korea and Japan and number two on the US Billboard 200, making him the highest-charting Korean solo artist on the latter chart. The album's single "Like Crazy" became the first song by a Korean solo artist to debut at number one on the US Billboard Hot 100 in history. Jimin also became the first Korean solo artist to top the Billboard Artist 100 chart. In 2024, he released his second album, Muse, and its lead single "Who", which debuted at number one on the Billboard Global 200.

Title: IShowSpeed
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IShowSpeed
Summary: Darren Jason Watkins Jr. (born January 21, 2005), better known as IShowSpeed or simply Speed, is an American influencer and online streamer. Known for his dramatic and energetic behavior he displays during his variety live streams and in-real-life streams, he is regarded as one of the most popular entertainers and internet personalities in the world.
Watkins was born in Cincinnati, Ohio. Registering his YouTube channel in 2016, he first posted gaming content. Watkins started gaining attention in 2021 due to his violent verbal and physical reactions when gaming. In 2022, he began shifting focus towards general entertainment, including soccer-related content, becoming an avid supporter of Cristiano Ronaldo, commonly revolving his content around his support for the player.
In 2024, Watkins began to tour the world by livestreaming in various worldwide locations. Many of these streams gained significant live viewership and resulted in international news coverage, leading some to praise him and view him as a cultural ambassador as he showed a more authentic side of countries, such as their cultures and inventions, to both domestic and international audiences.
Watkins has also pursued a rapping career. He signed with Warner Records to release his 2022 single "World Cup", which charted in several countries. He followed it up with the 2026 single "Champions", which was featured on the FIFA World Cup 2026 Official Album and performed by himself at the tournament's closing ceremony. He was named Breakout Streamer of the Year at the 12th Streamy Awards in 2022, and twice won Streamer of the Year at the 2024 Streamer Awards and 2025 Streamer Awards.

Title: Aldae
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aldae
Summary: Gregory Hein, known professionally as Aldae (homonymous with "all day"), is an American songwriter and record producer. He has co-written songs for a variety of artists including Justin Bieber, Shawn Mendes, Selena Gomez, Marshmello, John Legend, Machine Gun Kelly, Khalid, Jackson Wang, and Tainy among others. In 2023, Aldae co-wrote Miley Cyrus' record-breaking single "Flowers", for which he achieved his first Billboard Hot 100 No. 1.

Title: Die with a Smile
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Die_with_a_Smile
Summary: "Die with a Smile" is a song by American singer-songwriters Lady Gaga and Bruno Mars. It was released as a standalone single on August 16, 2024, through Interscope Records, and was included as the closing track of Gaga's studio album Mayhem (2025). Mars developed the track with Dernst "D'Mile" Emile II and James Fauntleroy in 2021; three years later, he presented it to Gaga, and the four completed it the same day. The final version was written by Gaga, Mars, D-Mile, Andrew Watt, and Fauntleroy, and it was produced by the first four.
The song is a sentimental ballad that incorporates pop, pop-soul, and soft rock, with influences from country music. Critics compared its style to the sounds of 1970s ballads, Gaga's album Joanne (2016) and single "Shallow" (2018), and Mars's Silk Sonic project. Lyrically, it expresses a powerful longing to be with a loved one, highlighting love's urgency amid uncertainty. The song received critical acclaim for the vocals, the instrumentation, and the lyrics' emotional weight.
"Die with a Smile" enjoyed widespread commercial success. On Spotify, it became the longest-reigning daily number-one song, the fastest track to surpass three billion streams, and the most-streamed song of 2025. The track spent 18 weeks atop the Billboard Global 200 and topped the charts in more than 30 countries, including the United States, Canada, New Zealand, and the Netherlands. It was certified multi-diamond in Brazil by Pro-Música Brasil and diamond in France by the National Syndicate of Phonographic Publishing, in Poland by the Polish Society of the Phonographic Industry and in Greece by IFPI Greece.
Mars and Daniel Ramos directed the music video, which was released simultaneously with the song. The video features Gaga playing piano and Mars playing guitar as they sing together in a studio inspired by 1970s television. The duo gave their first live performance of the song at a Mars concert in Los Angeles in August 2024. In the same year, a performance in Las Vegas was released officially on digital platforms. Both artists delivered solo renditions in concerts, including some shows of Bruno Mars Live (2022–2024), Gaga's 2025–2026 Mayhem Ball concert tour, the Super Bowl LX halftime show, and her reimagined version for Mayhem Requiem. "Die with a Smile" was nominated for Song of the Year and won Best Pop Duo/Group Performance at the 67th Annual Grammy Awards.