Title: Die Heimat
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Die_Heimat
Summary: The Homeland (German: Die Heimat), formerly the National Democratic Party of Germany (German: Nationaldemokratische Partei Deutschlands, NPD), is a far-right, neo-Nazi and ultranationalist political party in Germany. It was founded in 1964 as successor to the German Reich Party (Deutsche Reichspartei, DRP). On 1 January 2011, the nationalist German People's Union merged with the NPD and the party name of the National Democratic Party of Germany was extended by the addition of "The People's Union". In June 2023, the party renamed itself to Die Heimat after a party vote. A splinter party, the National Democratic Party of Germany, emerged from party dissidents opposed to the change and retain the symbols and name of the NPD.
As a neo-Nazi organization, it has been referred to as "the most significant neo-Nazi party to emerge after 1945". The German Federal Agency for Civic Education, or BPB, has criticized the NPD for working with members of organizations which were later found unconstitutional by the federal courts and disbanded, while the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV), Germany's domestic security agency, classifies The Homeland as a "threat to the constitutional order" because of its platform and ideology, and it is under their observation. An effort to outlaw the party failed in 2003, as the government had many informers and agents in the party, some in high position, who had written part of the material used against them. 
Since its founding in 1964, the party has never managed to win enough votes on the federal level to cross Germany's 5% minimum threshold for representation in the Bundestag; it has succeeded in crossing the 5% threshold and gaining representation in state parliaments 11 times, including one-convocation entry to seven West German state parliaments between November 1966 and April 1968 and two-convocation electoral success in two East German states of Saxony and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern between 2004 and 2011. Since 2016, The Homeland has not been represented in state parliaments. Udo Voigt led the NPD from 1996 to 2011. He was succeeded by Holger Apfel, who in turn was replaced by Udo Pastörs in December 2013. In November 2014, Pastörs was ousted and Frank Franz became the party's leader and in 2024 he was succeeded by Peter Schreiber.
Voigt was elected the party's first Member of the European Parliament in 2014. The party lost the seat in the 2019 European Parliament election.  
On 23 January 2024, the Federal Constitutional Court excluded the party from party funding for six years, arguing that it continued to oppose the fundamental principles that are indispensable for the free democratic constitutional state and aimed to eliminate them.

Title: Sweden men's national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sweden_men%27s_national_football_team
Summary: The Sweden men's national football team (Swedish: Sveriges herrlandslag i fotboll) represents Sweden in men's international football and it is controlled by the Swedish Football Association, the governing body of football in Sweden. Sweden's home ground is Nationalarenan in Solna. From 1945 to the late 1950s, they were considered one of the greatest teams in Europe.
Sweden has made thirteen appearances at the World Cup with their first coming in 1934. They have also made seven appearances at the European Championship. Sweden finished second at the 1958 FIFA World Cup, which they hosted, and third in both 1950 and 1994. Sweden's other accomplishments also include a gold medal at the 1948 Summer Olympics, and bronze medals in 1924 and 1952. They also reached the semi-finals at UEFA Euro 1992, while hosting the tournament. Sweden's most prominent result in recent history was at the 2018 FIFA World Cup, where they reached the quarter-finals.

Title: Denmark national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark_national_football_team
Summary: The Denmark national football team (Danish: Danmarks herre-fodboldlandshold or herrelandsholdet) represents Denmark including Greenland, but not the Faroe Islands, in men's international football competitions. It is controlled by the Danish Football Association (DBU), the governing body for the football clubs which are organised under DBU. Denmark's home stadium is Parken Stadium in the Østerbro district of Copenhagen.
Denmark were winners of the unofficial 1906 Intercalated Games football competition and silver medalists at the 1908 and 1912 Olympics. However, as amateurs who prohibited their internationals from becoming professionals at foreign clubs, Denmark did not qualify for the FIFA World Cup until 1986, although they won another Olympic silver in 1960.
Since the 1980s and the "Danish Dynamite" team, Denmark has remained competitive in international tournaments. Triumph in the 1992 European Championship in Sweden marked the team's most prominent victory, defeating defending champions the Netherlands in the semi-final and world champions Germany in the final. They also won the 1995 King Fahd Cup, defeating Argentina in the final. Their best World Cup result was achieved in 1998, where they narrowly lost 3–2 in a quarter-final against Brazil. Denmark also made the round of 16 in 1986, 2002 and 2018. Their most prominent result in recent history was at Euro 2020, where the team lost in the semi-final against England after extra time.

Title: Indonesia national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indonesia_national_football_team
Summary: The Indonesia national football team (Indonesian: Tim nasional sepak bola Indonesia) represents Indonesia in international men's football matches since 1951. The men's national team is controlled by the Football Association of Indonesia (PSSI), the governing body for football in Indonesia, which is a part of AFC, under the jurisdiction of FIFA. Most of Indonesia home matches are played at the Gelora Bung Karno Stadium.
The team is colloquially referred to as Tim Garuda (Garuda Team), Timnas (National Team) or Merah Putih (The Red and White) after the country's national emblem and their distinctive red-and-white jerseys based on the country's flag. Their dedicated fan clubs are known as La Grande Indonesia and Ultras Garuda.
Indonesia was the first team from Asia to participate in the FIFA World Cup. The predecessor of the team, Dutch East Indies, participated in the 1938 edition, where they were eliminated in the first round. The team's only appearance at the Olympics was in 1956. Indonesia qualified for the AFC Asian Cup on five occasions, and advanced to the knockout stage for the first time in the 2023 tournament, exiting in the round of 16. Indonesia achieved the bronze medal at the 1958 Asian Games in Tokyo. The team appeared in the ASEAN Championship final six times. They finished runners-up on all six occasions. Indonesia has long-standing football rivalries with neighbours Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam.

Title: Chinese Taipei women's national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_Taipei_women%27s_national_football_team
Summary: The Chinese Taipei women's national football team (Chinese: 中華台北女子足球代表隊) represents Taiwan (Republic of China) in international women's football and is controlled by the Chinese Taipei Football Association, the governing body for football in Taiwan.