Title: Foundation model
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foundation_model
Summary: In artificial intelligence, a foundation model (FM), also known as large x model (LxM, where "x" is a variable representing any text, image, sound, etc.), is a machine learning or deep learning model trained on vast datasets so that it can be applied across a wide range of use cases. Generative AI applications like large language models (LLMs) are common examples of foundation models.
Building foundation models is often highly resource-intensive, with the most advanced models costing hundreds of millions of dollars to cover the expenses of acquiring, curating, and processing massive datasets, as well as the compute power required for training. These costs stem from the need for sophisticated infrastructure, extended training times, and advanced hardware, such as graphics processing units. In contrast, adapting an existing foundation model for a specific task or using it directly is far less costly, as it uses pre-trained capabilities and typically requires only fine-tuning on smaller, task-specific datasets.
Early examples of foundation models are language models like OpenAI's GPT series and Google's BERT. Beyond text, foundation models have been developed across a range of modalities, including DALL-E, Stable Diffusion, and Flamingo for images, MusicGen and LLark for music, and RT-2 for robotic control. Foundation models are also being developed for fields like astronomy, radiology, 
ophthalmology,
genomics, earth sciences, coding, time series forecasting, mathematics, and chemistry.

Title: Large language model
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model
Summary: A large language model (LLM) is an AI model (typically a neural network) trained on a vast amount of text for natural language processing tasks, especially language generation. LLMs can typically generate, summarize, translate, and analyze text in many contexts. They are the basis for many modern chatbots, such as ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini, Grok, and DeepSeek.
LLMs are typically based on transformer architecture. Generative pre-trained transformers (GPTs) are a type of LLM that is pre-trained to predict the next word. GPTs are then often fine-tuned to follow instructions and to behave as assistants.
Biased or inaccurate training data can make an LLM's output less reliable. Benchmark evaluations for LLMs attempt to measure model reasoning, factual accuracy, alignment, and safety.

Title: List of large language models
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_large_language_models
Summary: A large language model (LLM) is a type of machine learning model designed for natural language processing tasks such as language generation. LLMs are language models with many parameters, and are trained with self-supervised learning on a vast amount of text.

Title: Moonshot AI
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moonshot_AI
Summary: Moonshot AI (Moonshot; Chinese: 月之暗面; pinyin: Yuè Zhī Ànmiàn; lit. 'Dark Side of the Moon') is an artificial intelligence (AI) company based in Beijing, China. It is one of China's six "AI Tigers". Its Kimi K3, released July 2026, is the largest open weights model ever, at 2.8 trillion parameters. Founded in Beijing by Yang Zhilin, Zhou Xinyu, and Wu Yuxin in March 2023 at the outset of the AI boom, the company achieved a valuation of US$35 billion by July 2026, the second most valuable privately held AI company in China, after DeepSeek. Major investors include Alibaba Group and Tencent.
Moonshot releases the Kimi series of open weights large language models, available via web, API, and the Kimi Code command-line agent. These are capable of multimodal image and video input, and their "Swarm" feature utilizes hundreds of sub-agents for deep research. Kimi K3's performance led the AI industry in China and rivalled frontier models from US companies OpenAI and Anthropic. Despite its open weights, K3's custom license requires revenue sharing of up to 30% for inference providers generating over US$20 million annually.  
Kimi models have been used as the basis or for post-training of US models, including Thinking Machines Lab's Inkling, Cursor's Composer 2, and Cognition AI's Devin AI. Throughout 2026, Anthropic accused Moonshot and other Chinese competitors of distilling its Claude models and covertly routing requests to Claude. From April, a US congressional committee subpoenaed DoorDash, Airbnb, and Cursor over their use of Kimi.

Title: DeepSeek
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DeepSeek
Summary: Hangzhou DeepSeek Artificial Intelligence Basic Technology Research Co., Ltd., doing business as DeepSeek, is a Chinese artificial intelligence (AI) company that develops open weights large language models (LLMs). Based in Hangzhou, Zhejiang, DeepSeek is owned and funded by High-Flyer, a Chinese hedge fund.