Title: Anthropic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropic
Summary: Anthropic, PBC (stylized as ANTHROP\C) is an American artificial intelligence (AI) public benefit corporation headquartered in San Francisco, California. Its flagship product is Claude, a series of proprietary large language models (LLMs). Anthropic was founded in 2021 with the goal of promoting AI safety by former members of OpenAI, including siblings Daniela Amodei and Dario Amodei, who are president and CEO, respectively. The company is privately held but reportedly plans an initial public offering in 2026. Valued at US$965 billion in a May 2026 Series H funding round, Anthropic is one of the world's most valuable AI pure play companies, rivaled by OpenAI.
Anthropic develops the LLM Claude in four tiers: Haiku, Sonnet, Opus, and Fable. Claude is accessible via an online chatbot, an API, and Anthropic's agent harnesses: Claude Code, Cowork, Design, and Science. Its model class Claude Mythos is available only to approved US organizations with a cybersecurity and life sciences focus. Anthropic's Project Panama, internally described as an "effort to destructively scan all the books in the world", provides training data for Claude. Before Project Panama, Anthropic downloaded pirated books and was sued, settling in 2025 a copyright infringement lawsuit from authors for $1.5 billion.
Anthropic conducts LLM research including on mechanistic interpretability, safety, alignment, and societal impact. Notable researchers working at Anthropic include Andrej Karpathy, John Jumper, Jan Leike, Chris Olah and Amanda Askell.
Anthropic partners with Palantir to provide Claude to US federal agencies including the Department of Defense (DoD) and the Intelligence Community; Claude was used in the 2026 Iran war and the 2026 United States intervention in Venezuela. In February 2026, the DoD demanded the ability to use Claude for all lawful purposes, but Anthropic refused to drop restrictions against mass domestic surveillance and fully autonomous weapons. The dispute led the Trump administration to phase out Anthropic products from government use, a decision blocked by a preliminary injunction from a federal judge who called it "First Amendment retaliation". Throughout 2026, Anthropic accused Chinese competitors including DeepSeek, Moonshot AI, Alibaba Cloud, and Z.ai of distilling Claude for their models.

Title: Large language model
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model
Summary: A large language model (LLM) is an AI model (typically a neural network) trained on a vast amount of text for natural language processing tasks, especially language generation. LLMs can typically generate, summarize, translate, and analyze text in many contexts. They are the basis for many modern chatbots, such as ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini, Grok, and DeepSeek.
LLMs are typically based on transformer architecture. Generative pre-trained transformers (GPTs) are a type of LLM that is pre-trained to predict the next word. GPTs are then often fine-tuned to follow instructions and to behave as assistants.
Biased or inaccurate training data can make an LLM's output less reliable. Benchmark evaluations for LLMs attempt to measure model reasoning, factual accuracy, alignment, and safety.

Title: AI boom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AI_boom
Summary: An AI boom is a period of rapid growth in the field of artificial intelligence. The most recent boom happened in the 2020s before seeing increased acceleration and media coverage. Generative AI technologies include large language models (LLM), which generate text and code, image models, and video models, and world models. This period is sometimes referred to as an AI spring, a term used to contrast it with previous AI winters.
As of 2026, large frontier models have been released by OpenAI, Anthropic, Google DeepMind, Meta Superintelligence Labs, and SpaceXAI in the United States, and by the AI industry in China, including Alibaba Cloud, DeepSeek, Moonshot AI, and Z.ai. Many leading models, largely from China, are open weights or open-source; open weights small language models are optimized to run locally on personal computers. These include many models under Alibaba's Qwen, Google's Gemma, Nvidia's Nemotron, and Meta's Muse Glimmer.
Key advances preceding precipitating the boom include the transformer (2017), generative pre-trained transformer (2018) and reinforcement learning from human feedback. During the boom, LLMs have evolved via the reasoning model, mixture of experts technique, and multimodal learning. 
Controversies of the AI boom include its environmental impact, dominance by US Big Tech companies, effect on copyright, proliferation of deepfakes, threats to cybersecurity and biosecurity, its use in warfare, a potential economic bubble, and existential risks such as AI takeover resulting from artificial general intelligence and superintelligence. Since 2018, observers including Ian Bremmer, Nicholas Thompson, and Kai-Fu Lee have argued an AI arms race or AI Cold War exists between the US and China. The boom has impacted the semiconductor industry, causing a global memory supply shortage. As of 2025, ChatGPT has emerged as the 4th-most-visited website globally, surpassed only by Google, YouTube, and Facebook.

Title: Moonshot AI
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moonshot_AI
Summary: Moonshot AI (Moonshot; Chinese: 月之暗面; pinyin: Yuè Zhī Ànmiàn; lit. 'Dark Side of the Moon') is an artificial intelligence (AI) company based in Beijing, China. It is one of China's six "AI Tigers". Its Kimi K3, released July 2026, is the largest open weights model ever, at 2.8 trillion parameters. Founded in Beijing by Yang Zhilin, Zhou Xinyu, and Wu Yuxin in March 2023 at the outset of the AI boom, the company achieved a valuation of US$35 billion by July 2026, the second most valuable privately held AI company in China, after DeepSeek. Major investors include Alibaba Group and Tencent.
Moonshot releases the Kimi series of open weights large language models, available via web, API, and the Kimi Code command-line agent. These are capable of multimodal image and video input, and their "Swarm" feature utilizes hundreds of sub-agents for deep research. Kimi K3's performance led the AI industry in China and rivalled frontier models from US companies OpenAI and Anthropic. Despite its open weights, K3's custom license requires revenue sharing of up to 30% for inference providers generating over US$20 million annually.  
Kimi models have been used as the basis or for post-training of US models, including Thinking Machines Lab's Inkling, Cursor's Composer 2, and Cognition AI's Devin AI. Throughout 2026, Anthropic accused Moonshot and other Chinese competitors of distilling its Claude models and covertly routing requests to Claude. From April, a US congressional committee subpoenaed DoorDash, Airbnb, and Cursor over their use of Kimi.

Title: Cursor (company)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cursor_(company)
Summary: Anysphere, Inc., doing business as Cursor, is a subsidiary of SpaceXAI which offers generative AI for producing computer code. Its primary product is Cursor, an AI coding agent and software development environment. 
Founded in 2022, the San Francisco-based company builds AI tools for writing code via natural-language instructions. Cursor achieved a US$29.3 billion valuation and surpassed $3 billion in annual recurring revenue by early 2026. It was acquired and integrated into SpaceXAI from June 2026. In August, it became a wholly owned subsidiary of SpaceXAI.