Title: Billie Eilish discography
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Billie_Eilish_discography
Summary: American singer-songwriter Billie Eilish has released 3 studio albums, 2 live albums, 1 video album, 2 extended plays (EPs), 35 singles, 4 promotional singles, and 32 music videos. According to the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), she has sold 45.5 million digital singles and 5 million albums. The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) crowned "Bad Guy" as 2019's biggest selling single globally, selling 19.5 million units in a year span. Eilish is regarded by various media outlets as the "Queen of Gen-Z Pop". At age 17, she became the youngest female artist in United Kingdom chart history to score a number-one album. As of October 2021, Eilish has accumulated 76.7 billion career streams worldwide. According to the IFPI, Eilish was the fourth best-selling artist of 2019 and fifth best-selling artist of 2020.
In August 2017, Eilish released her first EP, Don't Smile at Me, which reached number 14 on the US Billboard 200, number 12 on the UK Albums Chart, and the top 10 in Australia, New Zealand, and Sweden. Eilish then released the internationally charting singles such as "Lovely" (with Khalid), "You Should See Me in a Crown", "When the Party's Over", "Come Out and Play", "Bury a Friend", "Wish You Were Gay", "Bad Guy", "Everything I Wanted", "My Future", and "Therefore I Am".
Her debut studio album, When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go? was released on March 29, 2019, and peaked at number one in 15 countries including the United States, the UK, Australia, and Canada. It sold 1.2 million units globally in 2019, making it the fifth biggest seller of the year. "Bad Guy" became Eilish's first single to debut in the top 10 of the US Billboard Hot 100, later peaking at number one. With "Bad Guy", she became the first artist born in the 21st century and third Gen Z artist to have a number-one song on the Hot 100, as well as the first to have a number-one album on the Billboard 200. Eilish also broke the record for the most simultaneous Hot 100 hits among women.
Eilish's second studio album, Happier Than Ever, was released on July 30, 2021, and peaked at number one in several countries including the US, the UK, Australia, and Canada. On July 21, 2022, she surprise-released her second EP, Guitar Songs, which consists of two tracks, "TV" and "The 30th". Her third studio album, Hit Me Hard and Soft, was released on May 17, 2024 and peaked at number two in the US.

Title: I Love You (Billie Eilish song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_Love_You_(Billie_Eilish_song)
Summary: "I Love You" (stylized in all lowercase) is a song by American singer Billie Eilish from her debut studio album, When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go? (2019). Eilish co-wrote the song with her brother Finneas O'Connell, who also handled production. As the 13th track on the album, "I Love You" is an acoustic guitar-based ballad accompanied by various plane-related noises, where Eilish's lyrics describe the resistance to falling in love with someone.
The song received mainly positive reviews from music critics, several of whom praised the music and lyrical content. For promotional purposes, "I Love You" was performed live during Eilish's 2019 When We All Fall Asleep Tour and her 2020 Where Do We Go? World Tour, and again on her 2022 Happier Than Ever, The World Tour. When the album was released, the song reached number 53 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and charted in several other countries. It was certified platinum in the United States and Canada by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and Music Canada (MC), respectively.

Title: List of songs recorded by Billie Eilish
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_songs_recorded_by_Billie_Eilish
Summary: American singer-songwriter Billie Eilish has co-written almost every song in her discography with her brother, Finneas O'Connell, who produces most of them. In 2015, she uploaded three songs to SoundCloud: "Fingers Crossed", "She's Broken", and "Ocean Eyes". Eilish wrote "Fingers Crossed" by herself, whereas "She's Broken" and "Ocean Eyes" were written by Finneas. Out of these three, "Ocean Eyes" became an instant hit; it led her to being signed to Darkroom and Interscope Records the following year. In August 2017, Eilish released her debut EP Don't Smile at Me. It was written by Eilish alongside Finneas, and primarily includes electropop songs with influences of R&B and jazz. "&Burn" and "Lovely" were collaborations with Vince Staples and Khalid, respectively. Eilish's songs have also appeared on soundtracks—"Ocean Eyes" on Everything, Everything (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) (2017), "Bored" on 13 Reasons Why (A Netflix Original Series Soundtrack) (2017), and "Lovely" on 13 Reasons Why: Season 2 (Music from the Original TV Series) (2018).
Her debut studio album, When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go?, was issued in March 2019, and featured the globally successful and her first Billboard Hot 100 number-one single "Bad Guy", for which a remix with Justin Bieber was eventually released. Further singles to aid the record included "You Should See Me in a Crown", "When the Party's Over", "Bury a Friend" and "Wish You Were Gay". Musically, When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go? was described by critics as a pop, electropop, avant-pop, and art pop effort. Its songs explore themes such as modern youth, heartbreak, suicide, and mental health, with lyrical sensibilities of humor and horror; Eilish said the album was inspired by lucid dreaming and night terrors. From late 2019 to early 2021, Eilish released several commercially successful singles—"Everything I Wanted", "No Time to Die", "My Future", "Therefore I Am" and "Lo Vas a Olvidar"—with the latter being a collaboration with Rosalía for the television series Euphoria. Eilish released her second studio album, Happier Than Ever, on July 30, 2021. On May 17, 2024, she released her third studio album, Hit Me Hard and Soft.

Title: Birds of a Feather (Billie Eilish song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birds_of_a_Feather_(Billie_Eilish_song)
Summary: "Birds of a Feather" is a song by American singer-songwriter Billie Eilish from her third studio album, Hit Me Hard and Soft (2024). It was released with the album on May 17, 2024, and was made the second official single on July 2, 2024, through Darkroom and Interscope Records. Eilish wrote the song with her brother, Finneas O'Connell, who recorded and produced it at his home studio in Los Angeles. A baroque pop, indie pop, new wave, and synth-pop song, "Birds of a Feather" explores themes of deep love and a desire for lasting connection.
"Birds of a Feather" topped the Billboard Global 200 and the national charts of nine countries, including Australia, Croatia, Estonia, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Singapore. The song additionally peaked at number two in nine other countries. It has been certified Diamond in France and multi-platinum in Australia, Canada, Greece, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, the United Kingdom, and the United States. It was the fourth best-selling song of 2024 globally according to the IFPI. "Birds of a Feather" was nominated for Song of the Year, Record of the Year, and Best Pop Solo Performance at the 67th Annual Grammy Awards in 2025.

Title: Wildflower (Billie Eilish song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wildflower_(Billie_Eilish_song)
Summary: "Wildflower" is a song by American singer-songwriter Billie Eilish and the fourth single from her third studio album, Hit Me Hard and Soft (2024). She wrote it with her brother and its producer, Finneas O'Connell. A folk-pop track, "Wildflower" sees Eilish consoling her friend after a breakup only to later begin dating the friend's ex-boyfriend, and the guilt she felt as a result. It was serviced to contemporary hit radio in the United States by Darkroom and Interscope Records on March 4, 2025.
"Wildflower" charted within the top 10 in Greece, Malaysia, Portugal, the Middle East and North Africa, and the United Kingdom and peaked at number 17 on the US Billboard Hot 100. It was certified quadruple platinum in New Zealand, Portugal, and the United States and quintuple platinum in Australia and Canada. At the 68th Annual Grammy Awards, "Wildflower" was nominated for Record of the Year and won Song of the Year, setting a record for Eilish and O'Connell for the most wins in the category. They also tied Adele, Bruno Mars, and Paul Simon for the most General Field wins, with seven each.