Title: Dallas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dallas
Summary: Dallas is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. Located in northern Texas, it is the ninth-most populous city in the United States and third-most populous city in Texas, with a population of 1.3 million at the 2020 census. Along with the city of Fort Worth, Dallas anchors the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex, the fourth-most populous metropolitan area in the U.S. and the most populous metropolitan area in Texas, at 8.5 million people. Dallas is a core city of the largest metropolitan area in the Southern U.S. and the largest inland metropolitan area in the U.S. that lacks any navigable link to the sea. It is the seat of Dallas County, covering nearly 386 square miles (1,000 km2) and extending into Collin, Denton, Kaufman, and Rockwall counties.
Both Dallas and Fort Worth were initially developed as a product of the construction of major railroad lines through the area allowing access to cotton, cattle, and later oil in North and East Texas. The construction of the Interstate Highway System reinforced Dallas's prominence as a transportation hub, with four major interstate highways converging in the city and a fifth interstate loop around it. Dallas then developed as a strong industrial and financial center and a major inland port, due to the convergence of major railroad lines, interstate highways, and the construction of Dallas Fort Worth International Airport, one of the largest and busiest airports in the world. In addition, Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) operates rail and bus transit services throughout the city and its surrounding suburbs.
Dominant sectors of its diverse economy include defense, financial services (such as traditional banking, investment banking, private equity, and venture capital), information technology, telecommunications, and transportation. The Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex hosts 23 Fortune 500 companies, the second-most in Texas and fourth-most in the United States, and 11 of those companies are located within Dallas city limits. Over 41 colleges and universities are located within its metropolitan area, which is the most of any metropolitan area in Texas. The city has a population from a myriad of ethnic and religious backgrounds.

Title: Mayor of Dallas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor_of_Dallas
Summary: The Mayor of the City of Dallas is a member of the Dallas City Council and its presiding officer. The current mayor is Eric Johnson, who has served one term since 2019 and is the 60th mayor to serve in the position. Dallas operates under a city charter that designates the mayor as the official head of city government and a council-manager system where a city council-appointed city manager serves as the chief operating officer of the city.

Title: Flag of Dallas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Dallas
Summary: The current flag of Dallas, Texas, was adopted February 13, 1967. The flag was designed by E. L. Gilchrist.

Title: Dallas City Council
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dallas_City_Council
Summary: The Dallas City Council serves as the legislative body in the City of Dallas. It consists of 14 members. City council members are chosen by majority elections in each of fourteen districts. The city operates under a council-manager system of local governance.

Title: 2019 Dallas mayoral election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019_Dallas_mayoral_election
Summary: On May 4, 2019, the city of Dallas, Texas, held an election to choose the next Mayor of Dallas. The election began as a nonpartisan blanket primary, no candidate took a majority of over 50% of the total vote so the two top vote-earners Eric Johnson and Scott Griggs advanced to a runoff election on June 8. Incumbent mayor Mike Rawlings was unable to run for reelection due to term limits. Dallas also concurrently elected all 14 members of its city council, and 3 of the 9 total members of the Dallas Independent School District. Johnson won the runoff with 55.61%.