Title: Lineage (company)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lineage_(company)
Summary: Lineage, Inc. (formerly Lineage Logistics) is the world's largest temperature-controlled warehouse real estate investment trust (REIT), owned by Bay Grove, LLC. Entering international markets in 2017, Lineage grew into the world's largest refrigerated warehousing company with a capacity exceeding 3 billion cubic feet and acquiring more than 100 companies through the end of 2023. Lineage operates over 450 facilities across 18 countries, with approximately 26,000 team members globally in North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific.

Title: Chime (company)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chime_(company)
Summary: Chime Financial, Inc. is an American financial technology company based in San Francisco, California. It provides fee-free mobile banking services through partnerships with two national banks, Stride Bank and The Bancorp Bank. The company offers fee-free checking and savings accounts, debit cards, and other financial products through its mobile application.
Chime was founded in 2012 by Chris Britt and Ryan King and began services in 2014. The company has grown through features like early access to direct deposits, earned wage access, fee-free overdraft services, and interest-free secured credit cards. It became publicly traded on the Nasdaq in June 2025.

Title: Urban Company
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urban_Company
Summary: Urban Company Limited, formerly known as UrbanClap, is an Indian multinational company that operates an online platform for booking home and personal services. The company was founded in 2014 by Abhiraj Singh Bhal, Varun Khaitan, and Raghav Chandra and is headquartered in Gurgaon, Haryana. In January 2020, the company changed its name from UrbanClap to Urban Company.

Title: Tokyo Metro (company)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tokyo_Metro_(company)
Summary: The Tokyo Metro Co., Ltd. (Japanese: 東京地下鉄株式会社, Hepburn: Tōkyō Chikatetsu kabushiki gaisha; lit. 'Tokyo Subway Share Company') is a tokushu gaisha (state-owned joint-stock company) jointly controlled by the Government of Japan and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. It operates nine subway lines and is also engaged in real estate, retail and education in the Greater Tokyo Area.
Tokyo Metro was privatized and established as a private company on April 1, 2004, succeeding Teito Rapid Transit Authority (TRTA) and shifting to a more commercial model while maintaining public service obligations.
In 2024, the company made its initial public offering, raising $2.3 billion in what became Japan's biggest IPO since 2018. Tokyo Metro was listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, debuting as the exchange's largest IPO in six years and with a market capitalization of roughly 1 trillion yen. The Government of Japan and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government each sold half of their shares, with the former using the proceeds to repay bonds funding reconstruction after the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.

Title: Initial public offering of SpaceX
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Initial_public_offering_of_SpaceX
Summary: The initial public offering (IPO) of SpaceX, an American aerospace and artificial intelligence company founded by Elon Musk in 2002, occurred on June 12, 2026. It was the largest ever IPO, at a valuation of US$1.77 trillion. On the first trading day, the company reached a market capitalization of about $2.1 trillion, positioning SpaceX as the sixth most valuable U.S.-listed firm.
This valuation and the quantity of stock retained by Musk made him the first and only US dollar trillionaire, but were highly controversial. By late July 2026, SpaceX shares had fallen approximately 50% from their peak reached during the week after the IPO, causing Musk to lose his trillionaire status.
The IPO raised $86 billion for the company's long-term ambitions, including building orbital artificial intelligence (AI) infrastructure to meet computing needs for xAI, a SpaceX subsidiary. The company chose to be listed on Nasdaq with the ticker symbol SPCX after securing a rule change allowing its early inclusion in the Nasdaq-100 index, but not the S&P 500 index.