Title: Marietta, Georgia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marietta,_Georgia
Summary: Marietta is a city in and the county seat of Cobb County, Georgia, United States. At the 2020 census, the city had a population of 60,972, making it one of Atlanta's largest suburbs. Marietta is the fourth largest of the principal cities by population of the Atlanta metropolitan area.

Title: Mark Hunt
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Hunt
Summary: Mark Hunt (born 23 March 1974) is a New Zealand former professional mixed martial artist and kickboxer. As a mixed martial artist, Hunt competed in Pride Fighting Championships (Pride FC) from 2004 until 2006, and the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) from 2010 until 2018. As a kickboxer, Hunt achieved success as the winner of the 2001 K-1 World Grand Prix. He is known as the "King of Walk-Offs" due to his popularisation of walking away and stopping attacks before the referee officially ends the match.

Title: Daniel Cormier
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Cormier
Summary: Daniel Ryan Cormier (; born March 20, 1979) is an American former professional mixed martial artist, freestyle wrestler, and current color commentator for the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). As a former UFC Light Heavyweight and Heavyweight Champion, Cormier is the second fighter in UFC history to hold titles in two weight classes simultaneously and is the first fighter to have title defenses in two divisions. He is widely regarded as one of the greatest mixed martial artists of all time.
As an international wrestler, Cormier was a six-time US World or Olympic Team Member, a World bronze medalist, a World Cup runner-up, a 2003 Pan American Games gold medalist (bronze in 2007), and a two-time Pan American champion. In folkstyle wrestling, Cormier was an NCAA Division I national finalist (with loss to the eventual four-time NCAA champion Cael Sanderson from Iowa State) and two-time Big 12 Conference runner-up for the Oklahoma State Cowboys. He was also a two-time NJCAA champion.
Prior to competing in the UFC, Cormier was the Strikeforce Heavyweight Grand Prix Champion and King of the Cage Heavyweight Champion. Fight Matrix currently ranks him as the seventh-greatest light heavyweight mixed martial artist of all time, the 13th-greatest heavyweight of all time, and the 14th-greatest male fighter of all time, pound-for-pound.

Title: Till I Die (Machine Gun Kelly song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Till_I_Die_(Machine_Gun_Kelly_song)
Summary: "Till I Die" is a song by American rapper Machine Gun Kelly. The song was released on January 6, 2015 as the lead single from his sophomore studio album, General Admission. It contains references to artists from Cleveland, as well as to the life in the state of Ohio. The song received positive reviews, with critics praising MGK's lyrical ability and inert references to Cleveland, describing the song as a "perfect trap anthem". The song was produced by J.U.S.T.I.C.E. League when the song was recorded in 2014, and the group also handled the distribution of the song.

Title: Nicknames of Cleveland
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicknames_of_Cleveland
Summary: There have been several nicknames for the City of Cleveland throughout its history. These include:

"The 216" – Referring to the local area code.
"America's North Coast" or "The North Coast" – Referring to the city's geographic position on the Lake Erie shore.
"Believeland" – Originated in 2007 and culminated in the 2016 NBA Finals between the Cleveland Cavaliers and the Golden State Warriors.
"The Best Location in the Nation" – Nickname commonly used for Cleveland during the 1950s, also referring to the city's geographic position.
"C-town" or "C-land" – Used by many performing artists and locals to denote Cleveland.
"City of Champions" – Referring to Cleveland's golden age of sports victories in the 1940s and 1950s.
"City of Light"
"The CLE" or simply "CLE" – From the IATA code for Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
"The Cleve" – Nickname used on the TV show 30 Rock.
"The Forest City" – Cleveland's oldest nickname. Introduced in the early 19th century, it refers to the forested nature of the city.
"The Land" – A term originating in Cleveland-made hip-hop music in the 1990s, and became popular in the national media in the mid-2010s.
"Metropolis of the Western Reserve" – A historical nickname for Cleveland, referring to the historical Connecticut Western Reserve.
"The Mistake on the Lake" or "The Mistake by the Lake" – A pejorative term for the city, originating from the late 1960s.
"The New American City"
"Prodigy of the Western Reserve" – A nickname for Cleveland coined by local journalist George E. Condon, also referring to the Connecticut Western Reserve.
"The Rock and Roll Capital of the World" – Originated in the early 1970s.  Refers to Cleveland's association with rock and roll music.  Today, Cleveland is home of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
"Sixth City" – An early 20th century nickname due to Cleveland being the sixth largest city in the nation at the time.