Title: Technical University of Denmark
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_University_of_Denmark
Summary: The Technical University of Denmark (Danish: Danmarks Tekniske Universitet), often simply referred to as DTU, is a polytechnic university and school of engineering. It was founded in 1829 at the initiative of Hans Christian Ørsted as Denmark's first polytechnic, and it is today ranked among Europe's leading engineering institutions. It is located in the town Kongens Lyngby, 12 km (7.5 mi) north of central Copenhagen, Denmark.
Along with École Polytechnique in Paris, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Eindhoven University of Technology, Technical University of Munich and Technion – Israel Institute of Technology, DTU is a member of EuroTech Universities Alliance.

Title: Gates Foundation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gates_Foundation
Summary: The Gates Foundation is an American private foundation founded by Bill Gates and Melinda French Gates. Based in Seattle, Washington, it was launched in 2000 and is reported to be the third-wealthiest charitable foundation in the world, holding $91 billion in assets as of December 31, 2025. The primary stated goals of the foundation are to enhance healthcare and reduce extreme poverty across the world, and to expand educational opportunities and access to information technology in the United States. Key individuals of the foundation include Warren Buffett (who resigned as a Gates Foundation trustee in 2021 and officially ended his partnership with the foundation in 2026), chief executive officer Mark Suzman, and Michael Larson.
The scale of the foundation and the way it seeks to apply business techniques to giving makes it one of the leaders in venture philanthropy, though the foundation itself notes that the philanthropic role has limitations. In 2007, its founders were ranked as the second most generous philanthropists in the U.S., behind Warren Buffett. As of 2018, Bill Gates and Melinda French Gates had donated around $36 billion to the foundation. Since its founding, the foundation has endowed and supported a broad range of social, health, and education developments, including the establishment of the Gates Cambridge Scholarships at Cambridge University.

Title: Webster Vienna Private University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Webster_Vienna_Private_University
Summary: Webster Vienna Private University is a private American university in Vienna, Austria housed in Palais Wenkheim. Founded in 1981, it is one of the oldest private institutions of higher learning in Austria. Webster Vienna is known for being the first university in Austria to offer dual US-Austrian degree accreditation, the first to teach exclusively in English, and the first to offer an accredited Master of Business Administration program in 1985. 
It is affiliated with Webster University in St. Louis, USA, but remains a distinct and separate institution within the wider Webster University Network across Europe and Asia. The university follows a Humboldtian model of higher education in learning structure, integrating faculty research into teaching.

Title: HM Hospitales
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HM_Hospitales
Summary: HM Hospitales is a private Spanish hospital group with a presence in the autonomous communities of Madrid, Galicia, Catalonia, Andalusia, Castilla-León and Castilla-La Mancha. It has 48 healthcare centers. Since 2008, the hospitals in the Community of Madrid have been university hospitals carrying out research and teaching.