Title: List of best-selling music artists
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_music_artists
Summary: The following list of best-selling music artists includes musical artists from the 20th century to the present with claims of 75 million or more record sales worldwide. The tables list artists in descending order by claimed sales; artists with equal claimed sales are ranked by certified units.
The claimed-sales and certified-unit figures include sales of albums, singles, compilation albums, and music videos as well as downloads of singles and full-length albums. Sales figures, such as those from SoundScan, which are sometimes published by Billboard, are not included in the certified-units column.

Title: List of Spotify streaming records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Spotify_streaming_records
Summary: The following lists contain the most streamed songs and albums as well as chart records on the audio streaming platform Spotify.

Title: Criticism of Spotify
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criticism_of_Spotify
Summary: Spotify, a music streaming company, has attracted significant criticism since its 2008 launch, mainly over artist compensation. Unlike physical sales or downloads, which pay artists a fixed price per song or album sold, Spotify pays royalties based on the artist's "market share"—the number of streams for their songs as a proportion of total songs streamed on the service. Spotify distributes approximately 70% of its total revenue to rights holders, who then pay artists based on their individual agreements. Multiple artists have criticised the policy, including Taylor Swift and Thom Yorke, who temporarily withdrew their music from the service.
Spotify faces particular scrutiny due to its free service tier, which allows users to listen free with advertisements between tracks. The tier has led to a variety of major album releases being delayed or withdrawn from the service. Spotify claims it benefits the industry by migrating users away from piracy and less monetized platforms and encouraging them to upgrade to paid accounts. Record labels keep a large amount of Spotify earnings.
Spotify has also attracted media attention for several security breaches, as well as for controversial moves including a significant change to its privacy policy, "pay-for-play" practices based on receiving money from labels for putting specific songs on popular playlists, and allegedly creating "fake artists" for prominent playlist placement, which Spotify denies.
Spotify has also been accused of creating AI music of deceased artists.
Spotify CEO Daniel Ek has also been criticized by some musicians for investing in Helsing, a company that develops military strike drones and develops artificial intelligence for weapons systems.

Title: List of most-streamed artists on Spotify
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most-streamed_artists_on_Spotify
Summary: The following list contains the most-streamed artists on the audio streaming platform Spotify. As of April 2026, Taylor Swift is the most-streamed artist in Spotify's history. Bad Bunny is the most-streamed male artist. 
Since 2013, Spotify has published a yearly list of its most-streamed artists, which has been topped by Bad Bunny a record four times (2020–2022; 2025), being the only artist to do so in three consecutive years. Drake has topped the list three times (2015–2016; 2018), while Swift is the only female artist to have topped the list (2023–2024).

Title: Alex Cooper (podcaster)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alex_Cooper_(podcaster)
Summary: Alexandra Cooper (born August 21, 1994) is an American podcaster who co-created and hosts Call Her Daddy, a weekly comedy and advice podcast. In 2021, Time called her "arguably the most successful woman in podcasting" after she signed a three-year exclusive deal with Spotify worth $60 million. Making $20 million per year made her Spotify's highest-earning female podcaster and the second-highest-paid podcaster, behind only Joe Rogan. The show was also the second-most-popular podcast globally on Spotify for 2024, behind Rogan.
Rolling Stone labeled her "the new generation's Barbara Walters" for frequently enlisting high-profile Hollywood talent and influential individuals in American popular culture to be guests on her podcast. In 2023, Cooper was named to the TIME100 Next list. In 2025, Cooper was named to Time magazine's inaugural "TIME100 Creators" list—appearing in the "Titans" category—for her impact as the creator and host of the Call Her Daddy podcast.