Title: X-Men Origins: Wolverine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X-Men_Origins:_Wolverine
Summary: X-Men Origins: Wolverine is a 2009 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Wolverine. It is the fourth installment in the X-Men film series, the first Wolverine solo film, and a prequel to X-Men (2000). The film was directed by Gavin Hood and written by David Benioff and Skip Woods. Hugh Jackman stars as Wolverine, alongside Liev Schreiber, Danny Huston, Dominic Monaghan, and Ryan Reynolds. The film's plot details Wolverine's childhood as James Howlett, his time with Major William Stryker's Team X, the bonding of Wolverine's skeleton with the indestructible metal adamantium during the Weapon X program and his relationship with his half-brother Victor Creed.
The film was mostly shot in Australia and New Zealand, with Canada also serving as a location. Filming took place from January to May 2008. Production and post-production were troubled, with delays due to the weather and Jackman's other commitments, an incomplete screenplay that was still being written in Los Angeles while principal photography rolled in Australia, conflicts arising between director Hood and Fox's executives over the film's direction, and an unfinished workprint being leaked on the internet a month before the film's debut.
X-Men Origins: Wolverine was released on May 1, 2009, by 20th Century Fox. The film received mixed reviews from critics. It opened at the top of the North American box office and grossed $179 million in the United States and Canada and $373 million worldwide. Two subsequent films, The Wolverine and Logan, were released in 2013 and 2017, respectively. Beginning with Deadpool (2016), Reynolds would star as a new version of his Origins character, Wade Wilson (as the titular character). Later, both Jackman and Reynolds would star together in the 2024 film Deadpool & Wolverine.

Title: Deadpool 2
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deadpool_2
Summary: Deadpool 2 is a 2018 American  superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Deadpool. It is the sequel to Deadpool (2016) and the eleventh installment in the X-Men film series. The film was directed by David Leitch and written by Rhett Reese, Paul Wernick, and Ryan Reynolds, who stars in the title role alongside Josh Brolin, Morena Baccarin, Julian Dennison, Zazie Beetz, T.J. Miller, Brianna Hildebrand, and Jack Kesy. In the film, Deadpool forms the X-Force to protect a young mutant from the time-traveling soldier Cable.
Plans for a sequel to Deadpool began before the original film's release, and were confirmed in February 2016. Though the original creative team of Reynolds, Reese, Wernick, and director Tim Miller were set to return for the second film, Miller left the project in October 2016 due to creative differences with Reynolds and was soon replaced by Leitch. An extensive casting search took place to fill the role of Cable, with Brolin ultimately cast. Principal photography took place in British Columbia from June to October 2017.
Deadpool 2 premiered at the Empire Leicester Square in London on May 10, 2018, and was released in the United States on May 18, by 20th Century Fox. The film outgrossed its predecessor, earning $785.9 million worldwide against a $110 million production budget, becoming the ninth highest-grossing film of 2018, the highest-grossing film in the X-Men series, and the highest-grossing R-rated film at the time of its release. The film received positive reviews from critics, with some considering it superior to the first film and praising its humor, cast performances, story, and action sequences, while others criticized its tone, script, and recycled jokes. A PG-13-rated version of the film, titled Once Upon a Deadpool, was released on December 12, 2018, to mixed reviews. Following the acquisition of 21st Century Fox by Disney, Deadpool's film rights were returned to Marvel Studios. A sequel, Deadpool & Wolverine, starring Reynolds and Hugh Jackman and integrating their characters into the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), was released on July 26, 2024, as part of Phase Five of the MCU.

Title: Deadpool & Wolverine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deadpool_%26_Wolverine
Summary: Deadpool & Wolverine is a 2024 American superhero film based on Marvel Comics featuring the characters Deadpool and Wolverine. Produced by Marvel Studios, Maximum Effort, and 21 Laps Entertainment, and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the 34th film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) and the sequel to Deadpool (2016) and Deadpool 2 (2018). The film was directed by Shawn Levy from a screenplay he wrote with Ryan Reynolds, Rhett Reese, Paul Wernick, and Zeb Wells. Reynolds and Hugh Jackman respectively star as Wade Wilson / Deadpool and Logan / Wolverine, alongside Emma Corrin, Morena Baccarin, Rob Delaney, Leslie Uggams, Aaron Stanford, and Matthew Macfadyen. In the film, Deadpool works with a reluctant Wolverine from another universe to stop the Time Variance Authority (TVA) from destroying his own universe.
Development on a third Deadpool film began at 20th Century Fox by November 2016, but was moved to Marvel Studios when Fox was acquired by Disney in March 2019. Wendy Molyneux and Lizzie Molyneux-Logelin joined in November 2020 as writers. Levy was hired to direct in March 2022, when Reese and Wernick returned from the previous films for rewrites. The creative team had difficulty settling on a story until Jackman decided to reprise his role as Wolverine from Fox's X-Men film series in August 2022. Several other actors from the X-Men films and other Marvel productions also returned as part of a multiverse story, which serves as a tribute to Fox's Marvel films. Filming began in May 2023, taking place at Pinewood Studios, Bovingdon Studios, and Norfolk in England as well as Los Angeles. Production was suspended in July due to the 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike. Filming resumed in November and wrapped in January 2024. The title was revealed a month later. The film's soundtrack features an original score by Rob Simonsen and numerous existing songs, including Madonna's "Like a Prayer" for key sequences. Deadpool & Wolverine is the first R-rated MCU film, retaining that rating from the prior Deadpool films.
Deadpool & Wolverine premiered on July 22, 2024, at the David H. Koch Theater in New York City, and was released in the United States on July 26 as part of Phase Five of the MCU. Critics praised the performances of Reynolds and Jackman as well as the humor, but were less positive about the film overall. It was a commercial success, grossing $1.338 billion worldwide and becoming the second-highest-grossing film of 2024, the highest-grossing R-rated film, and the 20th-highest-grossing film at the time. With a net production budget of $429 million, Deadpool & Wolverine is believed to be one of the most expensive films ever made. It received various accolades. A sequel is in development.

Title: Deadpool & Wolverine (soundtrack)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deadpool_%26_Wolverine_(soundtrack)
Summary: Deadpool & Wolverine (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) (also known as Deadpool & Wolverine: Van Jamz) is the soundtrack album for the Marvel Studios film Deadpool & Wolverine. It was released by Hollywood Records on July 24, 2024, with a physical release on July 26. A separate film score album, Deadpool & Wolverine (Original Score), composed by Rob Simonsen, was released digitally on July 24 with a regular edition and a deluxe that also includes the soundtrack album. Madonna's 1989 single "Like a Prayer" is heavily featured in the film, but is excluded from the official soundtrack release; an EP, titled Deadpool & Wolverine: Madonna's "Like a Prayer" EP, was released by Warner Records on August 9, 2024.

Title: Deadpool in other media
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deadpool_in_other_media
Summary: The Marvel Comics character Deadpool has appeared in various other media since his debut in The New Mutants #98 (December 1990). Deadpool has been the focus of various animated series and video games. The character made its live-action film debut in X-Men Origins: Wolverine (2009), portrayed by Ryan Reynolds. A Deadpool live-action feature film also starring Reynolds and directed by Tim Miller was released in 2016, with Reynolds also appearing as the character in the two sequels Deadpool 2 (2018) and Deadpool & Wolverine (2024).