Title: Shonda Rhimes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shonda_Rhimes
Summary: Shonda Lynn Rhimes (born January 13, 1970) is an American television producer and screenwriter, and founder of the production company Shondaland. Rhimes became known as the first showrunner—creator, head writer and executive producer—of the medical drama Grey's Anatomy (2005–present), its spin-off Private Practice (2007–2013) and the political thriller Scandal (2012–2018), becoming the first African American female showrunner to create three television dramas that have achieved the 100 episode milestone.
Rhimes has served as the executive producer of the ABC thriller series How to Get Away with Murder (2014–2020), the Netflix period series Bridgerton (2020–present) and Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story (2023) and crime drama Inventing Anna (2022). She has been nominated five times for a Primetime Emmy Award, won a Golden Globe Award and a Daytime Emmy Award, and received special honors at the British Academy Television Awards and  International Emmy Awards.
In 2015, Rhimes was inducted into the NAB Broadcasting Hall of Fame. In 2017, she was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame and became a Chair's Appointee of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences's executive committee. She is also part of the USC Film Council and the Writers Guild Inclusion Committee.
In 2007, 2013, and 2021, Rhimes was named by Time to the Time 100, their annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world. As of 2023, she is one of the richest women entertainers in America, with a net worth of $250 million. In 2015, she published her first book, a memoir, Year of Yes: How to Dance It Out, Stand in the Sun, and Be Your Own Person. In 2016, Rhimes formed The Rhimes Family Foundation whose mission is to support arts, education, and activism.

Title: How to Get Away with Murder
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/How_to_Get_Away_with_Murder
Summary: How to Get Away with Murder is an American legal drama thriller television series that premiered on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) on September 25, 2014, and concluded on May 14, 2020. The series was created by Peter Nowalk and produced by Shonda Rhimes and ABC Studios, airing as part of a night of programming under Rhimes' Shondaland production company.
The show stars Viola Davis as Annalise Keating, a defense attorney and law professor at a prestigious Philadelphia university, who, along with five of her students, becomes involved in a complex murder plot. The series features an ensemble cast including Alfred Enoch, Jack Falahee, Aja Naomi King, Matt McGorry, and Karla Souza as Annalise's students, Charlie Weber and Liza Weil as her employees, and Billy Brown as a detective with the Philadelphia Police Department and Annalise's lover. Beginning with the third season, Conrad Ricamora was promoted to the main cast after recurring in the first two seasons, whilst Rome Flynn, Amirah Vann and Timothy Hutton were promoted to the main cast in the fifth season.
Davis received widespread critical acclaim for her performance in the series: she became the first Black woman to win a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series, also winning two Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Drama Series, and the Image Award for Outstanding Actress in a Drama Series. Davis also received nominations from the Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress in a Television Series, the Critics' Choice Awards for Best Actress in a Drama Series, and the Television Critics Association at the TCA Awards for Individual Achievement in Drama.
Other cast members also received recognition for their performances, with Enoch and King receiving nominations from the NAACP Image Awards for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series and Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series at the 2014 NAACP Image Awards ceremony. The series also received a GLAAD Media Award for Outstanding Drama Series.

Title: How to Get Away with Murder season 1
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/How_to_Get_Away_with_Murder_season_1
Summary: The first season of the ABC American television drama series How to Get Away with Murder premiered on September 25, 2014, and concluded on February 26, 2015, with a total of 15 episodes. On May 7, 2015, the show was renewed by ABC for a second season.
For its first season, the series received numerous accolades. The show was honored as a Television Program of the Year by the American Film Institute. It was also named Outstanding Drama Series at the Image Awards and the GLAAD Awards. For her performance, Davis won the Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series, the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance in a Drama Series, and the Image Award for Outstanding Actress in a Drama Series. Davis received nominations from the Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress in a Television Series, the Critics' Choice Awards for Best Actress in a Drama Series, and the Television Critics Association for Individual Achievement in Drama.

Title: How to Get Away with Murder season 2
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/How_to_Get_Away_with_Murder_season_2
Summary: The second season of the ABC American television drama series How to Get Away with Murder was ordered on May 7, 2015, by ABC. The second season began airing on September 24, 2015, and consisted of 15 episodes, concluding on March 17, 2016. A promotional poster was released on August 18, and the trailer was released on September 10.
In its second season, the series has continued to receive accolades; the show has been nominated for Outstanding Drama Series at the Image Awards as well as the GLAAD Awards. Viola Davis has won the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance in a Drama Series and has been nominated for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series at the Primetime Emmy Awards, Outstanding Actress in a Drama Series at the Image Awards, Best Actress in a Drama Series at the Critics' Choice Awards, and Best Actress in a Television Series at the Golden Globe Awards.

Title: List of How to Get Away with Murder characters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_How_to_Get_Away_with_Murder_characters
Summary: How to Get Away with Murder is an American drama television series that premiered on ABC on September 25, 2014. The series was created by Peter Nowalk, and produced by Shonda Rhimes and ABC Studios. Viola Davis stars as Annalise Keating, a law professor at a prestigious Philadelphia university who, with five of her students, becomes entwined in a murder plot. The series features an ensemble cast with Alfred Enoch, Jack Falahee, Aja Naomi King, Matt McGorry, and Karla Souza as Keating's students, Charlie Weber and Liza Weil as her employees and Billy Brown as a detective with the Philadelphia Police Department, and Annalise's lover. From the third season onward, Conrad Ricamora was added to the main cast after recurring heavily in the previous two seasons. Following is a list of characters who have appeared over the various seasons since the drama's premiere.