Title: Demographics of Canada
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demographics_of_Canada
Summary: Statistics Canada conducts a country-wide census that collects demographic data every five years in the first and sixth year of each decade. The 2021 Canadian census enumerated a total population of 36,991,981, an increase of around 5.2 percent over the 2016 figure. It is estimated that Canada's population surpassed 40 million in 2023 and 41 million in 2024. The main driver of population growth is immigration, with 6.2% of the country's population being made up of temporary residents as of 2023, or about 2.5 million people. In 2025, Canada's population officially stood at 41.5 million, an estimated decrease of 76,068. 2024 saw the lowest recorded total fertility rate in the country's history, at around 1.25; this rate is among the lowest in the world.
Canada has one of the highest per-capita immigration rates in the world, driven mainly by economic policy and, to a lesser extent, family reunification. In 2024–2025, a total of 435,421 immigrants were admitted to Canada. New immigrants to Canada settle mostly in major urban areas such as Toronto, Montreal, and Vancouver. Canada also accepts large numbers of refugees, accounting for over 10 percent of annual global refugee resettlements.

Title: Patrice Lumumba
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patrice_Lumumba
Summary: Patrice Émery Lumumba (  pə-TREESS luu-MUUM-bə; born Isaïe Tasumbu Tawosa; 2 July 1925 – 17 January 1961) was a Congolese politician, independence leader and revolutionary who served as the first prime minister of the First Congolese Republic (modern day Democratic Republic of the Congo) from June until September 1960, following his party's success in the May 1960 election. Lumumba was the leader of the Congolese National Movement (MNC) from 1958 until his assassination in 1961. Ideologically an African nationalist and pan-Africanist, he played a significant role in the transformation of the Congo from a colony of Belgium into an independent republic.
Shortly after Congolese independence in June 1960, an army mutiny marked the beginning of the Congo Crisis. Both Katanga and South Kasai declared independence, which Lumumba responded to by sending the Congolese army to put down the secessions. This created a political crisis that resulted in then President Joseph Kasa-Vubu dismissing Lumumba and his government. This was followed by a coup led by Mobutu Sese Seko. Lumumba then attempted to escape to Stanleyville to join his supporters who had established a new anti-Mobutu state called the Free Republic of the Congo, but he was captured by state authorities under Mobutu, and sent to Elisabethville in Katanga. He was tortured and later executed by the separatist Katangan authorities of Moïse Tshombe, alongside Belgian mercenaries. His body was later dissolved in acid. In 2002, Belgium formally apologised for its role in the execution, admitting "moral responsibility". In 2022, Lumumba's tooth was returned by the Belgian government to his family. 
Lumumba is widely seen as a martyr for anti-colonial liberation and the pan-African movement.

Title: Democratic Republic of the Congo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo
Summary: The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), also known as the DR Congo, Congo-Kinshasa, or simply the Congo, and formerly named Zaire, is a country in Central Africa. By land area, it is the second-largest country in Africa and the eleventh-largest in the world. With a population of about 124 million people, the Democratic Republic of the Congo is the fourth-most populous country in Africa and the most populous Francophone country in the world. French is the official and most widely spoken language. There are over 200 indigenous languages, of which Lingala is the most widely spoken. The capital, largest city, and economic center is Kinshasa. The DRC is bordered by the Republic of the Congo, the Cabinda exclave of Angola, and the South Atlantic Ocean to the west; the Central African Republic and South Sudan to the north; Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, and Tanzania (across Lake Tanganyika) to the east; and Zambia and Angola to the south. Centered on the Congo Basin, most of the DRC's terrain is covered by dense rainforests and is crossed by many rivers. The east and southeast are mountainous.
The territory of the Congo was first inhabited by Central African foragers around 90,000 years ago and was settled in the Bantu expansion about 2,000 to 3,000 years ago. In the west, the Kingdom of Kongo ruled around the mouth of the Congo River from the 14th to the 19th century. In the center and east, the empires of Mwene Muji, Luba, and Lunda ruled between the 15th and 19th centuries. These kingdoms were broken up by Europeans during the colonization of the Congo Basin. King Leopold II of Belgium acquired rights to the Congo territory in 1885 and called it the Congo Free State. In 1908, Leopold ceded the territory after international pressure in response to widespread atrocities, and it became a Belgian colony. Congo achieved independence from Belgium in 1960 and was immediately confronted by secessionist movements, the assassination of Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba, and the seizure of power by Mobutu Sese Seko in 1965. Mobutu renamed the country Zaire in 1971 and imposed a personalist dictatorship.
Instability caused by an influx of refugees from the Rwandan Civil War led to the First Congo War, from 1996 to 1997, which ended with Mobutu's overthrow. The country's name was changed, and it experienced the Second Congo War from 1998 to 2003, which resulted in an estimated several million deaths and the assassination of President Laurent-Désiré Kabila. The war ended under President Joseph Kabila, who restored relative stability. Human rights remained poor, and there were frequent abuses, such as forced disappearances, torture, arbitrary imprisonment and restrictions on civil liberties. Kabila stepped down in 2019 after Félix Tshisekedi won the contentious 2018 election, marking the country's first peaceful transition of power since independence. Over 120 armed groups remain active, concentrated in the east. One of the region's largest cities, Goma, was occupied by the M23 rebels in 2012 and again since 2025. The M23 uprising escalated in 2025 with military support from Rwanda, which has caused a conflict between the two countries.
Despite being rich in natural resources, the DRC is one of the world's poorest and least developed countries, having suffered from political instability, lack of infrastructure, rampant corruption, and centuries of commercial and colonial extraction and exploitation. The nation is a prominent example of the "resource curse". Aside from Kinshasa, the next largest cities, Lubumbashi and Mbuji-Mayi, are mining communities. DRC's main exports are raw minerals and metal, which accounted for 80% of exports in 2023, with China being its largest trade partner. The DRC's level of human development was ranked 171 out of 193 countries by the Human Development Index in 2023. As of 2022, following two decades of civil wars and internal conflicts, around one million Congolese refugees were still living in neighbouring countries. Two million children are at risk of starvation, and the fighting has displaced 7 million people. The DRC is a member of the United Nations, Non-Aligned Movement, African Union, COMESA, Southern African Development Community, Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie, and Economic Community of Central African States.

Title: Voice of America
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voice_of_America
Summary: Voice of America (VOA or VoA) is an international broadcaster, funded by the United States federal government and established in 1942. It is the largest and oldest of the US's existing international broadcasters, producing digital, TV, and radio content in 48 languages for affiliate stations around the world. Its targeted and primary audience is non-Americans outside the American borders, especially those living in countries without press freedom or independent journalism. Since 2025, State Media Monitor has classified the United States Agency for Global Media (USAGM) and its outlets, including VOA, Radio Free Asia, and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, as state-controlled media, describing the agency as operating "under direct White House political direction".
VOA was established in 1942, during World War II. Building on American use of shortwave radio during the war, it initially served as an anti-propaganda tool against Axis misinformation but later expanded to include other forms of content, such as American music programs for cultural diplomacy. During the Cold War, its operations expanded to fight communism and contributed to its decline in several countries. Throughout its operations, it has aimed to broadcast uncensored information to residents under restrictive regimes, even airing behind the Iron Curtain. In response, some countries began investing in technology to jam VOA broadcasts. In 2017, Russia designated VOA a foreign agent, requiring it to establish a Russian legal entity. It was blocked in Russia, along with some other Western international broadcasters, in 2022. Its programming can be accessed by Russian listeners using VPNs and other software. Its journalists often take substantial risks reporting inside repressive regimes.
It is headquartered in Washington, D.C., and overseen by the USAGM, an independent agency of the U.S. government funded with Congressional approval, which also oversees Radio Free Asia and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. Funds are appropriated annually under the budget for embassies and consulates. As of 2022, VOA had a weekly worldwide audience of approximately 326 million (up from 237 million in 2016) and employed 961 staff with an annual budget of $267.5 million.
The VOA served its propaganda function by pursuing objective journalism, demonstrating that the US has free press and free speech and providing a contrast for people living in countries where the state exerts tight control over the media. Policies have been implemented to try to preserve its accuracy and independence, including the 1976 VOA charter, which mandates its reporting be "accurate, objective, and comprehensive", and the 1994 US International Broadcasting Act, which prohibits editorial interference by government officials. The agency refers to these laws as its "firewall".
During the first presidency of Donald Trump, leadership at the agency was replaced with Trump allies, and there were several allegations, both internal and external, of interference in hiring and coverage to be loyal to Trump. In his second administration, Trump signed an executive order cutting funding to the USAGM. On March 14, 2025, almost all of VOA's 1,300 journalists, producers, and assistants were placed on administrative leave. The next day, many VOA foreign-language broadcasts replaced news and other regularly scheduled programming with music and the VOA website ceased being updated. On May 6, 2025, Trump ally Kari Lake, the acting head of the agency overseeing VOA, announced that One America News (OAN), a far-right, pro-Trump network known for promoting conspiracy theories, would provide news coverage for VOA.
On June 20, 2025, layoff notices were sent to 639 VOA employees, completing an 85% reduction in staff at the USAGM since the beginning of Trump's second term, and effectively shutting down the service. Of the entire USAGM, 250 employees remained on staff, close to the statutory minimum, with approximately 200 of those at VOA.
On March 17, 2026, United States district court judge Royce Lamberth ordered more than 1,000 VOA employees to return to work by March 23. This ruling followed Lamberth's March 7, 2026, invalidation of Trump's appointment of Kari Lake to lead VOA's parent agency, which nullified the mass layoffs and other actions she took in 2025.

Title: Soukous
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soukous
Summary: Soukous (from French secousse, "shock, jolt, jerk") is a genre of dance music originating from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (formerly Zaire) and the Republic of the Congo (formerly French Congo and the People's Republic of the Congo). It derived from Congolese rumba in the 1960s, with faster dance rhythms and bright, intricate guitar improvisation, and gained popularity in the 1980s in France. Although often used by journalists as a synonym for Congolese rumba, both the music and dance associated with soukous differ from more traditional rumba, especially in its higher tempo, song structures and longer dance sequences.
Soukous fuses traditional Congolese rhythms with contemporary instruments. It customarily incorporates electric guitars, double bass, congas, clips, and brass/woodwinds. Soukous lyrics often explore themes of love, social commentary, philosophical musing, struggle, and success. Singers occasionally performed in Lingala, Kikongo, French and Swahili and bands often consist of a primary vocalist accompanied by several backing singers.