Title: Technical drawing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_drawing
Summary: Technical drawing, drafting or drawing, is the act and discipline of composing drawings that visually communicate how something functions or is constructed.
Technical drawing is essential for communicating ideas in industry and engineering.
To make the drawings easier to understand, people use familiar symbols, perspectives, units of measurement, notation systems, visual styles, and page layout. Together, such conventions constitute a visual language and help to ensure that the drawing is unambiguous and relatively easy to understand. Many of the symbols and principles of technical drawing are codified in an international standard called ISO 128.
The need for precise communication in the preparation of a functional document distinguishes technical drawing from the expressive drawing of the visual arts. Artistic drawings are subjectively interpreted; their meanings are multiply determined. Technical drawings are understood to have one intended meaning.
A drafter is a person who makes a drawing (technical or expressive). A professional drafter who makes technical drawings is sometimes called a drafting technician.

Title: Motorola Razr V3
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motorola_Razr_V3
Summary: The Motorola Razr V3, popularly called simply the Razr (pronounced  like "razor"), is a clamshell style cell phone developed by Motorola. A 2G quad-band worldwide GSM phone, it was released initially in September 2004, and in the US in November 2004, being the first product released under the RAZR (or MOTORAZR) moniker. Updated versions were later released as V3i, V3x and V3xx which included changes such as improved cameras, expandable memory, or 3G, and variants were released to support other networks.
The Razr V3's internal specifications were almost identical to the preceding Motorola V600 and V500 series, but it was built in a completely new, skinny body. Codenamed "Siliqua", Motorola began development in July 2003, in parallel with a complementing "feminine" flip phone project (which became the Pebl), although it was a technical challenge. Motorola industrial designer Chris Arnholt was responsible for much of the Razr's distinct features: the phone had a strikingly thin profile at the time on a flip phone set, sported an electroluminescent keypad made out of a single metal wafer, housed in an aluminium body with an external glass screen. The "Razr" name was coined by executive Geoffrey Frost, who was instrumental in the phone's success. Rather than launching at a fair, Motorola CEO Edward Zander unveiled the Razr V3 at a presentation held in Chicago on July 27, 2004.

With its unique look and high price, it was initially positioned as a desirable premium product. Despite its otherwise average internal features, its groundbreaking,  and sleek exterior, eventually made it extremely successful following price cuts. In the United States the V3 series was the most popular cell phone in 2005, 2006 and 2007 and remained best-selling until the latter half of 2008. The Motorola Razr has become an icon of mid-2000s popular culture as well as a defining icon of industrial design. The Razr series was succeeded in 2007 by the Motorola Razr2 series.

Title: AVC-Intra
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AVC-Intra
Summary: AVC-Intra is a term used by Panasonic to refer to its profiles of the H.264/MPEG-4 AVC standard encapsulated in MXF-format files. Among other features, it records video with only intra coding, so as to make it possible to edit videos without loss of quality, and makes other simplifications such as making the size of each frame fixed. The original AVC-Intra defines 10-bit 4:2:0 coding at 50 Mbit/s or 10-bit 4:2:2 at 100 Mbit/s for 1080p/i or 720p/i video.
AVC-Intra is available in Panasonic's high definition broadcast products such as their P2 card equipped broadcast cameras. Panasonic markets its storage products based on the level of AVC-Intra it can sustain.

Title: Dell Inspiron laptops
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dell_Inspiron_laptops
Summary: Dell Inspiron laptops are a discontinued consumer-oriented line of laptop computers made by American company Dell under the Dell Inspiron branding.
The first Inspiron laptop model was introduced before 1999.

Title: Swords Into Plowshares (TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swords_Into_Plowshares_(TV_series)
Summary: Swords Into Plowshares (Chinese: 太平年; pinyin: Tàipíng Nián) is a 2026 Chinese historical television series directed by Yang Lei and Lu Beike, written by Dong Zhe, and starring Bai Yu, Zhou Yutong, Zhu Yawen, Yu Haoming, Dong Yong and Ni Dahong. Produced by Huace Film & TV, the 48-episode drama depicts the final years of the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period and the early Song dynasty, focusing on Qian Hongchu, the last king of Wuyue, and his historic decision to peacefully surrender his kingdom to the Song in 978 CE—a rare instance of bloodless national unification in Chinese history.
The series premiered on CCTV-1 on January 23, 2026, airing daily at 20:00 China Standard Time, with simultaneous streaming on iQiyi, Mango TV, and Tencent Video.