Title: Lingala
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lingala
Summary: Lingala (or Ngala, Lingala: Lingála) is a Bantu language spoken in the northwest of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the northern half of the Republic of the Congo, in their capitals, Kinshasa and Brazzaville, and to a lesser degree as a trade language because of emigration in neighbouring Angola or Central African Republic. Lingala has 20 million native speakers and about another 20 million second-language speakers, for an approximate total of 40 million speakers. A significant portion of both Congolese diasporas speaks Lingala in their countries of immigration like Belgium, France or the United States.

Title: African French
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/African_French
Summary: African French (French: français africain) is the umbrella grouping of varieties of the French language spoken throughout Francophone Africa. Used mainly as a secondary language or lingua franca, it is spoken by an estimated 167 million people across 34 countries and territories, some of which are not Francophone, but merely members or observers of the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie. Of these, 18 sovereign states recognize it as an official de jure language, though it is not the native tongue of the majority. According to Ethnologue, only 1.2 million people spoke it as a first language. African French speakers represent 47% of the Francophonie, making Africa the continent with the most French speakers in the world.
In Africa, French is often spoken as a second language alongside the Indigenous ones, but in a small number of urban areas (in particular in Central Africa and in the ports located on the Gulf of Guinea) it has become a first language, such as in the region of Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in the urban areas of Douala, Yaoundé in Cameroon, in Libreville, Gabon, and Antananarivo. 
In some countries, though not having official de jure status, it is a first language among a small social classes of the population, such as in Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, and Mauritania, where French is a first language among the upper classes along with Arabic (many people in the upper classes are simultaneous bilinguals in Arabic/French), but only a second language among the general population. 
In each of the Francophone African countries, French is spoken with local variations in pronunciation and vocabulary.

Title: Bangala
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bangala
Summary: Bangala may refer to:

Bangala language, a dialect of Lingala that is spoken in Orientale Province in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Lingala language itself
Bangla, archaic form of Bangla (Bengal)
Bangala Dam, a dam in Zimbabwe
Bangala River, a river of Tanzania
Bangala Station, the former name of Makanza, a town in the Democratic Republic of the Congo

Title: Languages of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Languages_of_the_Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo
Summary: The Democratic Republic of the Congo is a multilingual country where an estimated total of 242 languages are spoken. The publication Ethnologue lists 215 living languages. The official language, since the colonial period, is French, one of the languages of Belgium. Four other languages, all of them Bantu based, have the status of national language: Kikongo-Kituba, Lingala, Swahili and Tshiluba.
The DRC is a Francophone country, where, as of 2024, 55.393 million (50.69%) out of 109.276 million people speak French. In fact, 74% of the population use French as a lingua franca, showing that many speak it as a second or third language, even if they are not fully proficient.
In 2024, there were over 12 million native French speakers, or around 12% of the population.
When the country was a Belgian colony, it had already instituted teaching and use of the four national languages in primary schools, making it one of the few African nations to have had literacy in local languages during the European colonial period.

Title: Languages of the Republic of the Congo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Languages_of_the_Republic_of_the_Congo
Summary: The official language of the Republic of Congo is French. Other languages are mainly Bantu languages, and the two national languages in the country are Kituba and Lingala, followed by Kongo languages, Téké languages, and more than forty other languages, including languages spoken by Pygmies, which are not Bantu languages.
Republic of Congo is a Francophone country, and in 2024, a study found that French was spoken by 3.89 million people out of a total of 6.33 million (61.4 %).
A 2006 study found that French was spoken by 30% of the Congolese population. According to a study by Omar Massoumou, 88% of those in Brazzaville aged over 15 could write simple phrases in French.
According to Laval University, because of civil wars that rocked the country, French became a "haven language" for various armed factions. For example, speakers who are incompetent in Kituba and Kikongo (especially those in the north),  and Lingala (especially those in the south) prefer to speak French for security reasons. For fear of revealing their ethnicity, the Congolese go to French, which helps preserve their anonymity. (See also: African French)
Kituba (or Munukutuba) is a  Kikongo-based creole, understandable by the users of different dialects of Kikongo. This language is used by 50.35% of the Congolese population who live along the Congo-Océan railway line which connects Brazzaville to Pointe-Noire in the south of the country. 
Lingala, the river language, is the language of President Denis Sassou-Nguesso, and is spoken mainly in the north and east of the country. This is the language which has grown most quickly in the past few years in the Congo.
Batekes form 16.9% of the population and are mostly found in the Plateaux Department, in the Cuvette-Ouest (where they are known as Mbéti and Tégué), Niari, Bouenza and the Pool region.
Ladi (pronunciation : Lari or Ladi) is the language mostly spoken in the Pool region and in the south of Brazzaville.
The dominant sign language is Nigerian Sign Language, influenced by local gestures and conventions.