Title: Netflix
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netflix
Summary: Netflix is an American subscription video on-demand over-the-top streaming television service. The service primarily distributes original and acquired films and television shows from various genres. It is available internationally in multiple languages.
Launched in 2007, nearly a decade after Netflix, Inc. began its pioneering DVD-by-mail movie rental service, Netflix is the most-subscribed video on demand global streaming media service, with 325 million paid memberships in more than 190 countries as of 2026. By 2022, "Netflix Original" productions accounted for half of its library in the United States and the namesake company had ventured into other categories, such as video game publishing of mobile games through its flagship service. As of 2026, Netflix is the 22nd most-visited website in the world, with 21.18% of its traffic coming from the US, followed by the United Kingdom at 6.01%, Canada at 4.94%, and Brazil at 4.24%.

Title: Adult Swim
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adult_Swim
Summary: Adult Swim (AS; stylized as [adult swim] and [as]) is an American adult-oriented television programming block on Cartoon Network which broadcasts during the evening, prime time, and late-night dayparts. The channel features stylistically varied animated and live-action series targeting an adult audience. The block's content includes original programming, particularly comedies and action series, syndicated series, and short films with generally minimal or no editing for content. Adult Swim is programmed by Williams Street, a subsidiary of The Cartoon Network, Inc. that also produces much of the block's original programming.
Launched on September 2, 2001, Adult Swim has frequently aired animated sitcoms, adult animation features, parody, satires, mockumentaries, sketch comedy, and pilots, with many of its programs being aesthetically experimental, transgressive, improvised, and surrealist in nature. Adult Swim has contracted with various studios known for their productions in absurd and shock comedy. In addition to comedy, Adult Swim also broadcasts Japanese anime and American action animation, and since May 2012 this type of programming has generally been aired on its Saturday night Toonami block, which itself is a relaunch of the original block of the same name that ran on Cartoon Network from March 1997 to September 2008. Adult Swim operated a video game division known as Adult Swim Games through 2026, which also published indie games not based on the block's original programming from 2011 to 2024.
When Adult Swim launched, it initially ran in the late night hours. It began to expand into prime time in 2008, and moved its start time to 8:00 p.m. ET/PT in 2014. To take advantage of adult viewership of Cartoon Network in the daypart, Adult Swim expanded further to 7:00 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays beginning in May 2023. After experiencing success with the changes, Adult Swim further expanded to 5:00 p.m. beginning on August 28, 2023, eclipsing Cartoon Network in daily runtime; the extension has primarily been used for a sub-block known as Checkered Past, which features classic Cartoon Network original series.
Due to its differing demographics, Adult Swim is usually promoted by The Cartoon Network, Inc. as being a separate network time-sharing with Cartoon Network on its channel allotments, with its viewership being measured separately by Nielsen from the youth-oriented daytime and afternoon programming carried under the Cartoon Network branding.

Title: Live streaming
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Live_streaming
Summary: Livestreaming, live-streaming, or live streaming is the streaming of video or audio in real time or near real time. While often referred to simply as streaming, the real-time nature of livestreaming differentiates it from other non-live broadcast forms of streamed media such as video-on-demand, vlogs and video-sharing platforms such as YouTube and TikTok.
Livestreaming services encompass a wide variety of topics, including social media, video games, professional sports, and lifecasting. Platforms such as Facebook Live, Periscope, Kuaishou, Douyu, bilibili, YouTube, and 17 include the streaming of scheduled promotions and celebrity events as well as streaming between users, as in videotelephony. Livestreaming sites such as Twitch and Kick have become popular outlets for watching people play video games, such as in esports, Let's Play-style gaming, or speedrunning. Live coverage of sporting events is a common application.
Chat rooms are a key feature in livestreaming, allowing viewers to interact with the broadcaster (streamer) and join ongoing conversations. These rooms often include emojis and emotes as additional communication tools.

Title: Twitch (service)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twitch_(service)
Summary: Twitch is an American video live-streaming service popular in video games, including broadcasts of esports competitions. It also offers music broadcasts, creative content, and "in real life" streams. Twitch is operated by Twitch Interactive, a subsidiary of Amazon. It was introduced in June 2011 as a spin-off of the general-interest streaming platform Justin.tv.
Content on the site can be viewed either live or via video on demand. The games shown on Twitch's current homepage are listed according to audience preference and include genres such as real-time strategy games, fighting games, racing games, and first-person shooters.
The popularity of Twitch eclipsed that of Justin.tv. In October 2013, the website had 45 million unique viewers, and by February 2014, it was considered the fourth-largest source of peak Internet traffic in the United States. At the same time, Justin.tv's parent company was re-branded as Twitch Interactive to represent the shift in focus when Justin.tv was getting shut down in August 2014. The same month, the service was acquired by Amazon for US$970 million, which later led to the introduction of synergies with the company's subscription service Amazon Prime.
By 2015, Twitch had more than 100 million viewers per month. In 2017, Twitch remained the leading live-streaming video service for video games in the US, and had an advantage over YouTube Gaming, which shut down its standalone app in May 2019. As of February 2020, it had three million broadcasters monthly and 15 million active users daily, with 1.4 million average concurrent users. As of May 2018, Twitch had over 27,000 partner channels. As of January 2025, Twitch was the 30th-most-visited website in the world with 23.46% of its traffic coming from the United States, followed by Russia with 8.87%, Germany with 7.08% and France with 6.26%. In late 2023, Twitch announced that it would stop operating in South Korea in 2024 because of its network fee policy, citing prohibitive costs.

Title: 2025–26 NHL season
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025%E2%80%9326_NHL_season
Summary: The 2025–26 NHL season was the 109th season of operation (108th season of play) of the National Hockey League (NHL). The regular season began on October 7, 2025, and was the final regular season played under the 82-game schedule before the schedule expands to 84 games in 2026–27. A mid-season break took place in February due to the NHL's participation in the 2026 Winter Olympics in Italy. The Stanley Cup playoffs began in April 2026 and ended on June 14, with the Carolina Hurricanes defeating the Vegas Golden Knights in six games to capture their second Stanley Cup in franchise history and first since 2006. 
After playing the previous season under its temporary identity, the Utah Hockey Club was renamed the Utah Mammoth in the off-season.