Title: Masters Tournament
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Masters_Tournament
Summary: The Masters Tournament (usually referred to as simply the Masters, or as the U.S. Masters outside North America) is one of the four men's major championships in professional golf. Scheduled for the first full week in April, the Masters is the first major golf tournament of the year. Unlike the other major tournaments which change host venues with each tournament, the Masters is always held at the same host venue: Augusta National Golf Club, a private course in the city of Augusta, Georgia.
Amateur golf champion Bobby Jones and investment banker Clifford Roberts founded the tournament. After his grand slam in 1930, Jones acquired a former plant nursery and co-designed Augusta National with course architect Alister MacKenzie. First played in 1934 as the "Augusta National Invitation Tournament", the Masters is an official money event on the PGA Tour, the European Tour, and the Japan Golf Tour. The field of players is smaller than those of the other major championships because it is an invitational event, held by the Augusta National Golf Club.
The tournament has a number of traditions. Since the 1949 Masters, a green jacket (specifically Pantone 342C, "Augusta Green") has been awarded to the champion, who must return it to the clubhouse one year after his victory, although it remains his personal property and is stored with other champions' jackets in a specially designated cloakroom. In most instances, only a first-time and reigning champion may remove his jacket from the club grounds. A golfer who wins the event multiple times uses the same green jacket awarded upon his initial win unless he needs to be re-fitted with a new jacket. The Champions Dinner, inaugurated by Ben Hogan at the 1952 Masters, is held on the Tuesday before each Masters and is open only to past champions and certain board members of the Augusta National Golf Club. Beginning in 1963, distinguished golfers, usually past champions, have hit an honorary tee shot on the morning of the first round to commence play. These have included Fred McLeod, Jock Hutchinson, Gene Sarazen, Sam Snead, Byron Nelson, Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player, Lee Elder, and Tom Watson. Since 1960, a semi-social contest on the Par 3 course has been played on Wednesday, the day before the first round.
Nicklaus has the most Masters wins, with six between 1963 and 1986. Tiger Woods won five between 1997 and 2019. Palmer won four between 1958 and 1964. Five have won three titles at Augusta: Jimmy Demaret, Sam Snead, Gary Player, Nick Faldo, and Phil Mickelson. Gary Player, from South Africa, was the first non-American player to win the tournament, in 1961; the second was Seve Ballesteros of Spain, the champion in 1980 and 1983.
The Augusta National course first opened in 1933 and has been modified many times by different architects. Among the changes: greens have been reshaped and, on occasion, entirely re-designed, bunkers have been added, water hazards have been extended, new tee boxes have been built, hundreds of trees have been planted, and several mounds have been installed.

Title: Jeopardy! Masters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeopardy!_Masters
Summary: Jeopardy! Masters is an American game show hosted by Ken Jennings (former 74-game champion and winner of The Greatest of All Time tournament) on ABC. Each season features recent notable Jeopardy! champions competing against each other in a "Champions League-style" format. It premiered on May 8, 2023. In February 2024, the show would be renewed for a second season, which premiered on May 1, 2024. In March 2025, it was announced that the show was renewed for a third season, which premiered on April 30, 2025. In June 2026, it was announced that the show was renewed for a fourth season, which premiered on August 25, 2026.

Title: 2024 Masters Tournament
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Masters_Tournament
Summary: The 2024 Masters Tournament was the 88th edition of the Masters Tournament and the first of the men's four major golf championships held in 2024. The tournament was played from April 11–14 at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, United States. Scottie Scheffler won his second Masters and major, four strokes ahead of runner-up Ludvig Åberg, who was playing in his first major. Scheffler became the fourth-youngest two-time winner of the tournament and the second player, after Tiger Woods in 2001, to win both the Masters and The Players Championship in the same calendar year.

Title: 2025 Masters Tournament
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_Masters_Tournament
Summary: The 2025 Masters Tournament was the 89th edition of the Masters Tournament and the first of the men's four major golf championships held in 2025. The tournament was played from April 10–13 at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, United States. Rory McIlroy won the tournament after the first hole of a sudden-death playoff against Justin Rose. In doing so, McIlroy became the sixth player, and the first European, to complete the modern career Grand Slam, this being his 11th attempt.  Additionally, McIlroy became the third player, after Tiger Woods in 2001 and Scottie Scheffler in 2024, to win the Masters and The Players Championship in the same calendar year.

Title: 2026 Masters Tournament
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Masters_Tournament
Summary: The 2026 Masters Tournament was the 90th edition of the Masters Tournament and the first of the four men's major golf championships held in 2026. The tournament was played April 9–12 at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, United States. 
Rory McIlroy won the tournament for the second consecutive year, one stroke ahead of runner-up Scottie Scheffler. He joined Jack Nicklaus, Nick Faldo and Tiger Woods as the only players to win two years consecutively.