Title: Marvel Cinematic Universe
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marvel_Cinematic_Universe
Summary: The Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) is an American media franchise and shared universe centered on a series of superhero films produced by Marvel Studios, based on characters from American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The franchise is owned by the Walt Disney Company and includes television series, short films, digital series, and literature. The shared universe, much like the original Marvel Universe in comic books, was established by crossing over common plot elements, settings, cast, and characters.
Marvel Studios releases its films in groups called "Phases", with the first three phases collectively known as "The Infinity Saga" and the following three phases as "The Multiverse Saga". The first MCU film, Iron Man (2008), began Phase One, which culminated in the crossover film The Avengers (2012). Phase Two began with Iron Man 3 (2013) and concluded with Ant-Man (2015), while Phase Three began with Captain America: Civil War (2016) and concluded with Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019). Black Widow (2021) is the first film in Phase Four, which concluded with Black Panther: Wakanda Forever (2022), while Phase Five began with Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023) and concluded with Thunderbolts* (2025). Phase Six began with The Fantastic Four: First Steps (2025) and will conclude with Avengers: Secret Wars (2027).
Marvel Television expanded the universe to television, first on network television with Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. on ABC in 2013 before further expanding to streaming television on Netflix and Hulu and to cable television on Freeform. They also produced the digital series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.: Slingshot (2016). Marvel Studios began producing its own television series for the streaming service Disney+, starting with WandaVision in 2021, marking the beginning of Phase Four. That phase also saw the studio expand to television specials, known as Special Presentations, starting with Werewolf by Night (2022). The MCU includes various tie-in comics published by Marvel Comics, a series of direct-to-video short films called Marvel One-Shots from 2011 to 2014, and viral marketing campaigns for some films featuring the faux news programs WHIH Newsfront (2015–16) and The Daily Bugle (2019–2022).
The franchise has been commercially successful, becoming one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time, and it has received generally positive reviews from critics. However, many of the Multiverse Saga projects performed below expectations and struggled compared to those of the Infinity Saga. The studio has attributed this to the increased amount of content produced after the 2019 film Avengers: Endgame, and began decreasing its content output by 2024. The MCU has inspired other film and television studios to attempt similar shared universes and has also inspired several themed attractions, an art exhibit, television specials, literary material, multiple tie-in video games, and commercials.

Title: List of Marvel Cinematic Universe films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Marvel_Cinematic_Universe_films
Summary: The Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) centers on American superhero films produced by Marvel Studios, based on characters from Marvel Comics publications. The MCU is the shared universe in which all of the films are set. Marvel Studios has released 38 films since 2008 and has at least eight more in various stages of development.
Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige has produced every MCU film, with some films having additional producers and production companies. The Spider-Man films are owned, financed, and distributed by Sony Pictures and co-produced by Sony's Columbia Pictures and Pascal Pictures. The MCU films are written and directed by various individuals and feature large, often ensemble, casts. They are released in groups called "Phases", with three phases making up a "Saga". The MCU is the highest-grossing film franchise of all time, grossing over $34.9 billion at the global box office. This includes Avengers: Endgame, which became the highest-grossing film ever at the time of its release in 2019.
The films from Phases One, Two, and Three are collectively known as "The Infinity Saga". The first MCU film, Iron Man (2008), was distributed by Paramount Pictures. Paramount also distributed Iron Man 2 (2010), Thor (2011), and Captain America: The First Avenger (2011), while Universal Pictures distributed The Incredible Hulk (2008). Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures began distributing the series with the crossover film The Avengers (2012), which concluded Phase One. Phase Two comprises Iron Man 3 (2013), Thor: The Dark World (2013), Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), Guardians of the Galaxy (2014), Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), and Ant-Man (2015). Captain America: Civil War (2016) started Phase Three, followed by Doctor Strange (2016), Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 (2017), Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017), Thor: Ragnarok (2017), Black Panther (2018), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018), Captain Marvel (2019), Avengers: Endgame, and Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019).
The films from Phases Four, Five, and Six are collectively known as "The Multiverse Saga". These phases also include television series and television specials streaming on Disney+. The Phase Four films are Black Widow (2021), Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings (2021), Eternals (2021), Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021), Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (2022), Thor: Love and Thunder (2022), and Black Panther: Wakanda Forever (2022). Phase Five features Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023), Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 (2023), The Marvels (2023), Deadpool & Wolverine (2024), Captain America: Brave New World (2025), and Thunderbolts* (2025). Phase Six began with The Fantastic Four: First Steps (2025), and also includes Spider-Man: Brand New Day (2026), Avengers: Doomsday (2026), and Avengers: Secret Wars (2027).
The next MCU saga will start with an X-Men film in 2028, followed by Ghost Rider and Black Panther III later that year.

Title: List of highest-grossing media franchises
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_media_franchises
Summary: This is a list of media franchises that have grossed more than $2 billion.

Title: Marvel Cinematic Universe: Phase Three
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marvel_Cinematic_Universe:_Phase_Three
Summary: Phase Three of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) is a group of American superhero films produced by Marvel Studios based on characters that appear in publications by Marvel Comics. The MCU is the shared universe in which all of the films are set. The phase, which began with Captain America: Civil War in May 2016, features individual superhero films that build to the crossover films Avengers: Infinity War (2018) and Avengers: Endgame (2019). It includes two Spider-Man films that were co-productions between Marvel Studios and Columbia Pictures, including Spider-Man: Far From Home which ended Phase Three in July 2019. Phases One, Two, and Three make up "The Infinity Saga" storyline.
Kevin Feige produced every film in the phase, with Amy Pascal also producing Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017) and Far From Home, and Stephen Broussard also producing Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018). Civil War, Infinity War, and Endgame directors Anthony and Joe Russo and writers Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely collaborated with the creative teams for each film in the phase. The films star Chris Evans as Steve Rogers / Captain America in Civil War, Benedict Cumberbatch as Dr. Stephen Strange in Doctor Strange (2016), Chris Pratt as Peter Quill / Star-Lord in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 (2017), Tom Holland as Peter Parker / Spider-Man in the Spider-Man films, Chris Hemsworth as Thor in Thor: Ragnarok (2017), Chadwick Boseman as T'Challa / Black Panther in Black Panther (2018), Paul Rudd as Scott Lang / Ant-Man and Evangeline Lilly as Hope van Dyne / Wasp in Ant-Man and the Wasp, and Brie Larson as Carol Danvers / Captain Marvel in Captain Marvel (2019); all returned for one or both of the crossover films. Evans and Holland have the most appearances in the phase, each starring or making cameo appearances in five films. Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures distributed the films except for the Spider-Man films, which were released by Sony Pictures Releasing. The phase's films grossed over US$13.5 billion at the global box office and received generally positive critical and public responses. Endgame became the highest-grossing film at the time. The phase is seen as the franchise's best, with consistent quality and a cohesive overarching story.
Each feature film received tie-in comic books and some were marketed using the in-universe news shows WHIH Newsfront and The Daily Bugle. Marvel Studios also released the Team Thor mockumentary shorts series which expand on Thor's portrayal in Ragnarok. In 2024, a group of television series based on Marvel Comics that were produced by Marvel Television, separately from Marvel Studios, for the streaming service Netflix were retroactively added to the MCU timeline, primarily alongside Phase Three content.

Title: Avengers (Marvel Cinematic Universe)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avengers_(Marvel_Cinematic_Universe)
Summary: The Avengers are a team of superheroes and the protagonists of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) media franchise, based on the eponymous team from Marvel Comics created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby in 1963. Founded by S.H.I.E.L.D. director Nick Fury, the team is a United States–based organization composed primarily of superpowered and gifted individuals, described as "Earth's Mightiest Heroes", who are committed to the world's protection from a variety of threats.
The Avengers are depicted as operating in the state of New York: originally from the Avengers Tower in Midtown Manhattan and subsequently in the Avengers Compound in Upstate New York. Arranged as an ensemble of core MCU characters originally consisting of Tony Stark / Iron Man, Steve Rogers / Captain America, Thor Odinson, Bruce Banner / Hulk, Natasha Romanoff / Black Widow, and Clint Barton / Hawkeye, it later expands to include 16 total members.
Regarded as an important part of the franchise, they are central to the MCU's first 23 films, collectively known as the Infinity Saga. Avengers teams from alternate universes were depicted in subsequent MCU properties across the Multiverse Saga, including appearances in the Disney+ animated series What If...? (2021–2024) and Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness (2022). A new incarnation of the Avengers is set to return in Avengers: Doomsday (2026) and Avengers: Secret Wars (2027). Both films will be part of the MCU's Phase Six, concluding the Multiverse Saga.
Following the formation of Marvel Studios as an independent film studio by Avi Arad, the head of Marvel's film division, producer Kevin Feige envisioned creating a shared cinematic universe to introduce the Avengers, similar to Stan Lee and Jack Kirby's comic books in the 1960s. Once Feige became studio chief in 2007 and formed his creative team, his strategy involved creating individual films for each major character in Phase One, beginning with Iron Man (2008) and concluding with The Avengers (2012). Casting for the original six members occurred from 2006 to 2010, beginning with Robert Downey Jr. as Iron Man and concluding with Mark Ruffalo replacing Edward Norton as the Hulk by 2010. Successive MCU installments introduced new members, with actors from other MCU films reprising their roles. Following the financial and critical success of The Avengers, a sequel, Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), was subsequently developed, with Aaron Taylor-Johnson and Elizabeth Olsen joining as Pietro and Wanda Maximoff, respectively. Captain America: Civil War (2016) was influenced by the "Civil War" comic storyline, depicting the breakup of the Avengers and introducing Tom Holland as Peter Parker / Spider-Man. Avengers: Infinity War (2018) and Avengers: Endgame (2019) concluded the Infinity Saga and depicted their disbandment. The film Captain America: Brave New World (2025) depicts the team restarting under the leadership of Anthony Mackie's Sam Wilson / Captain America, while the film Thunderbolts* (2025) sees members of the Thunderbolts team form a separate faction dubbed the "New Avengers".
The four Avengers films are currently the third highest-grossing superhero franchise and the sixth highest-grossing film franchise of all time, grossing more than US$7.7 billion. The Avengers have received praise as a group from critics, particularly for their dynamic together, with Endgame receiving praise from critics as a conclusion for that iteration of the team. Due to their successful introduction, other film studios decided to create their own shared superhero universes, notably DC Entertainment and Warner Bros. Pictures, which announced plans to release a film for the Justice League. Avengers Campus, a series of attractions at various Disney Parks, opened in June 2021 at Disney California Adventure, while an immersive family dining experience called "Avengers: Quantum Encounter" debuted at the Worlds of Marvel restaurant in the Disney Wish cruise ship in July 2022.