The University of Pennsylvania (Penn or UPenn) is a private Ivy League research university in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. Chartered in 1755 by its first president Benjamin Franklin, who advocated for an educational institution that trained leaders in academia, commerce, and public service, it is one of nine colonial colleges in the country.
The university has 4 undergraduate schools and 12 graduate and professional schools. Schools enrolling undergraduates include the College of Arts and Sciences, the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the Wharton School, and the School of Nursing. Among its graduate schools are its law school, whose first professor, James Wilson, helped write the U.S. Constitution, and its medical school, the first in North America.
In fiscal year 2024, Penn reported $2.172 billion in research expenditures, ranking second among U.S. universities in the National Science Foundation's Higher Education Research and Development (HERD) survey. As of June 30, 2025, Penn's endowment was $24.808 billion. The main campus is in the University City neighborhood of West Philadelphia, centered around College Hall. Campus landmarks include Houston Hall, described as the first student union building in the United States, and Franklin Field, which has hosted college football since 1895 and was expanded into a two-tier stadium in 1922. The university's athletics program, the Penn Quakers, fields varsity teams in 33 sports as a member of NCAA Division I's Ivy League conference.
Penn alumni, trustees, and faculty include 8 signers of the Declaration of Independence, 7 signers of the U.S. Constitution, 24 members of the Continental Congress, 3 presidents of the United States, 38 Nobel laureates, 9 foreign heads of state, 3 United States Supreme Court justices, at least 4 Supreme Court justices of foreign nations, 32 U.S. senators, 163 members of the U.S. House of Representatives, 19 U.S. Cabinet secretaries, 46 governors, 28 state supreme court justices, 36 living undergraduate billionaires, the only person to ever reach trillionaire status, 6 recipients of the Medal of Honor, and more than 200 Olympic athletes, 43 of whom earned 81 medals (26 of them gold).


== History ==


=== 18th century ===
In 1740, a group of Philadelphians organized to build a preaching hall for the traveling Anglican evangelist George Whitefield. Designed and constructed by Edmund Woolley, it was the largest building in Philadelphia at the time and drew thousands of attendees. In the fall of 1749, Benjamin Franklin circulated a pamphlet, "Proposals Relating to the Education of Youth in Pensilvania," outlining his vision for a "Public Academy of Philadelphia". On June 16, 1755, the College of Philadelphia was chartered, adding undergraduate instruction. Penn identifies as the fourth-oldest institution of higher education in the United States, a claim contested by Princeton and Columbia because the College of Philadelphia was not chartered until 1755 and its first board of trustees did not convene until 1749.
In the 1750s, roughly 40 percent of Penn students needed lodging since they came from areas in the British North American colonies that were too far to commute, or were international students. Before the completion of the first dormitory in 1765, out-of-town students were typically placed with faculty or in boarding houses. Jonathan and Philip Gayienquitioga, two brothers of the Mohawk Nation, were recruited by Franklin to attend the Academy of Philadelphia in 1755, making them the first Native Americans at Penn.

The 1765 founding of the first medical school in America made Penn the first institution to offer both undergraduate and professional education. Moses Levy, the first Jewish student, enrolled in 1769. The first dormitory opened in 1765 under Penn professor Ebenezer Kinnersley, who collaborated with Franklin on studies of electricity. Kinnersley served as steward of the dormitory, with disciplinary authority over the students. Many students still sought housing elsewhere for greater personal freedom, and in 1775 the trustees voted to lease the dormitory to a private family who would board students at lower cost.
When the British were forced out of Philadelphia during the Philadelphia campaign during the American Revolutionary War, College Hall, the college's only building at the time, served as the temporary meeting site of the Second Continental Congress from July 7 to 20, 1778, briefly making Penn's campus one of the early capitals of the United States. In 1779, distrusting Provost William Smith's Loyalist sympathies, the revolutionary State Legislature created a new institution, renamed the University of the State of Pennsylvania in 1785. This was the first American institution of higher learning to take the name "University". Smith continued operating an attenuated version of the College of Philadelphia, and in 1791 the legislature issued a new charter merging the two institutions into the University of Pennsylvania, with twelve men from each institution serving on the new board of trustees.


=== 19th century ===

In 1802, the university moved to the unused Presidential Mansion at Ninth and Market Streets, a building both George Washington and John Adams had declined to occupy when Philadelphia was the nation's capital. Among the faculty in 1807 was Benjamin Rush, a professor of chemistry, medical theory, and clinical practice who was also a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence, a member of the Continental Congress, and surgeon general of the Continental Army.
Classes were held in the mansion until 1829, when it was demolished. Architect William Strickland designed twin buildings on the same site, College Hall and Medical Hall (both 1829–1830), which formed the core of the Ninth Street Campus. In 1849, with the founding of Penn's Eta chapter of Delta Phi, Penn students began establishing residential fraternity houses. Because Penn had limited housing near c