Title: Andrew Johnson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Johnson
Summary: Andrew Johnson (December 29, 1808 – July 31, 1875) was the 17th president of the United States, serving from 1865 to 1869. The 16th vice president, he assumed the presidency following the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. Johnson was a War Democrat who ran with Lincoln on the National Union Party ticket in the 1864 presidential election, coming to office as the American Civil War concluded. Johnson favored quick restoration of the seceded states to the Union without protection for the newly freed people who were formerly enslaved, as well as pardoning ex-Confederates. This led to conflict with the Republican Party-dominated U.S. Congress, culminating in his impeachment by the House of Representatives in 1868. He was acquitted in the Senate by one vote.
Johnson was born into poverty and never attended school. He was apprenticed as a tailor and worked in several frontier towns before settling in Greeneville, Tennessee, serving as an alderman and mayor before being elected to the Tennessee House of Representatives in 1835. After briefly serving in the Tennessee Senate, Johnson was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1843, where he served five two-year terms. He was the governor of Tennessee for four years, and was elected by the legislature to the U.S. Senate in 1857. During his congressional service, he sought passage of the Homestead Bill, which was enacted soon after he left his Senate seat. In February 1861, Slave states in the Southern U.S., including Tennessee, seceded to form the Confederate States of America, but Johnson remained firmly with the Union. He was the only senator from a Confederate state who did not promptly resign his seat upon learning of his state's secession. In 1862, Lincoln appointed him as Military Governor of Tennessee after most of it had been retaken. Johnson was a logical choice as Lincoln's running mate in 1864 because Lincoln wanted to send a message of national unity in his re-election campaign. Following their victory, Johnson became vice president.
Johnson implemented his own form of Presidential Reconstruction, a series of proclamations directing the seceded states to hold conventions and elections to reform their civil governments. Southern states returned many of their old leaders and passed Black Codes to deprive the freedmen of many civil liberties, but Congressional Republicans refused to seat legislators from those states and advanced legislation to overrule the Southern actions. Johnson vetoed their bills, and Congressional Republicans overrode him, setting a pattern for the remainder of his presidency. Johnson opposed the Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which gave citizenship to former slaves. In 1866, he went on an unprecedented national tour promoting his executive policies, seeking to break Republican opposition. As the conflict grew between the branches of government, Congress passed the Tenure of Office Act (1867), restricting Johnson's ability to fire Cabinet officials. He persisted in trying to dismiss the Secretary of War, Edwin Stanton, but ended up being impeached by the House of Representatives and narrowly avoided conviction in the Senate. He did not win the 1868 Democratic presidential nomination and left office the following year.
Johnson returned to Tennessee after his presidency and gained some vindication when he was elected to the Senate in 1875, making him the only former president to serve in the Senate. He died five months into his term. Johnson's strong opposition to federally guaranteed rights for African Americans is widely criticized, and historians have consistently ranked him as one of the worst U.S. presidents.

Title: Johnson Controls
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johnson_Controls
Summary: Johnson Controls International plc is an American-Irish multinational conglomerate headquartered in Cork, Ireland, that produces fire, HVAC, and security equipment for buildings. As of mid-2019, it employed 105,000 people in around 2,000 locations across six continents. In 2017 it was listed as 389th in the Fortune Global 500. It became ineligible for the Fortune 500 in subsequent years since it relocated its headquarters outside the U.S.
The company was formed via the merger of American company Johnson Controls with Tyco International, announced on 25 January 2016. The merger led to the avoidance of taxation on foreign market operations and a financial windfall for the CEO of Johnson Controls at that time, Alex Molinaroli.

Title: Cornell Johnson Graduate School of Management
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cornell_Johnson_Graduate_School_of_Management
Summary: The Cornell Johnson Graduate School of Management is the graduate business school of Cornell University, a private Ivy League research university in Ithaca, New York. Established in 1946, Johnson is one of six Ivy League business schools and offers the smallest full‑time MBA cohort of all Ivy League MBA programs, fostering an intimate and collaborative academic environment while also maintaining the third lowest acceptance rate. The Cornell Master of Business Administration (MBA) also offers a one-year Tech MBA at Cornell Tech in New York City, as well as the Cornell 1+1 MBA program, combining one year in Ithaca followed by one year at Cornell Tech. In 1984, Samuel Curtis Johnson Jr. and his family donated $20 million to the school, and in 2017 Herbert Fisk Johnson donated $150 million, the third largest gift to a business school in history. The endowment gift resulted in the school's renaming in honor of Johnson’s grandfather, Samuel Curtis Johnson, Sr., the founder of S.C. Johnson.
Cornell University’s MBA program at the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business consistently ranks among the top 10 MBA programs in the United States based on average total starting salary. Graduates of the Cornell MBA earned a median first-year salary of $175,000, in addition to a signing bonus of $38,826, with 77.9% reporting a sign-on bonus— ranking as the second highest total compensation among MBA programs in the United States in 2023. With more than 70% of graduates receiving a sign-on bonus on average, the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business consistently ranks among the top 10 business schools in the United States based on average total starting salary and job offer success rate prior to graduation.
Johnson is known for its elite consulting placements, strong finance and investment banking outcomes, One-Year Tech MBA in New York City, immersion learning, and tight-knit cohorts. Cornell Johnson is especially recognized for its collaborative community and strong alumni ties across industries. With an acceptance rate of 27.1%, the Cornell University MBA is the seventh most selective business school in the United States, and one of the most selective business schools in the world.
The Johnson School is housed in Sage Hall and supports more than 80 full-time faculty members. There are 600 students in the full-time, two-year Master of Business Administration program in Ithaca, as well as 40 Ph.D. students, all advised by Johnson faculty. The Johnson School is known for its rural setting and small class size — with close proximity to New York City. As such, both factors, combined with Johnson's commitment to the two-year MBA program in Ithaca and one-year MBA at Cornell Tech, contribute to its high giving rate of 1 in 4 among the 15,000 global Cornell MBA alumni, the third highest alumni giving rate of all Ivy League business schools.
In 2017, Cornell University officially consolidated its two undergraduate business programs— the Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management and the Nolan School of Hotel Administration — into the Cornell Johnson Graduate School of Management, forming the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business.  The merger followed a $150 million donation from Herbert Fisk Johnson III, chairman and CEO of S.C. Johnson, accompanied by a 3:1 matching grant for a total contribution of $300 million to Cornell Johnson.  Upon capitalization, this donation will raise Cornell Johnson's endowment to $692 million, ranking the Cornell MBA third in endowment per student within the Ivy League, and seventh in the world.

Title: Reckitt
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reckitt
Summary: Reckitt is a British multinational consumer goods company headquartered in Slough, United Kingdom. It manufactures health and hygiene products.
Reckitt's brands include the antiseptic brand Dettol, the sore throat medicine Strepsils, the toilet cleaner Harpic, the hair removal brand Veet, the cold, flu, and cough relief brand Mucinex, the indigestion remedy Gaviscon, the pain relief medication Nurofen and other brands and products like: Durex, Lysol, Finish, and Vanish.
The company was formed in 1999 by the merger of British company Reckitt & Colman plc and Dutch company Benckiser N.V. Following the merger, the company was known as Reckitt Benckiser until 2021.

Title: Premiership of Boris Johnson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Premiership_of_Boris_Johnson
Summary: Boris Johnson's tenure as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom began on 24 July 2019 when he accepted an invitation from Queen Elizabeth II to form a government, succeeding Theresa May, and ended on 6 September 2022 upon his resignation. Johnson's premiership was dominated by Brexit, the COVID-19 pandemic, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and the cost of living crisis. As prime minister, Johnson also served simultaneously as First Lord of the Treasury, Minister for the Civil Service, Minister for the Union, and Leader of the Conservative Party.
Johnson defeated Jeremy Hunt in the 2019 Conservative Party leadership election on 23 July 2019, and was appointed prime minister the following day. He re-opened Brexit negotiations with the European Union and in early September he prorogued Parliament; the Supreme Court later ruled the prorogation to have been unlawful. After agreeing to a revised Brexit withdrawal agreement but failing to win parliamentary support, Johnson called a snap general election to be held in December 2019, which the Conservative Party won in its first landslide victory since 1987. During Johnson's premiership, the government responded to the COVID-19 pandemic by introducing various emergency powers to mitigate its impact and approved a nationwide vaccination programme. He also responded to the Russian invasion of Ukraine by imposing sanctions on Russia and authorising foreign aid and weapons shipments to Ukraine.
In the Partygate scandal it was found that numerous parties had been held at 10 Downing Street during national COVID-19 lockdowns, and COVID-19 social distancing laws were breached by 83 individuals, including Johnson, who in April 2022 was issued with a fixed penalty notice. The publishing of the Sue Gray report in May 2022 and a widespread sense of dissatisfaction led in June 2022 to a vote of confidence in his leadership amongst Conservative MPs, which he won. In July 2022, revelations over his appointment of Chris Pincher as deputy chief whip of the party while knowing of allegations of sexual misconduct against him led to a mass resignation of members of his government and to Johnson announcing his resignation as prime minister. Following the July–September 2022 Conservative Party leadership election, Johnson was succeeded as prime minister by Liz Truss, his foreign secretary.
Johnson is seen by many as a controversial figure in British politics. His supporters have praised him for being humorous, witty, and entertaining, with an appeal reaching beyond traditional Conservative Party voters, making him, in their view, an electoral asset to the party. Conversely, his critics have accused him of lying, elitism, cronyism, bigotry and what some perceive as imposing excessive measures and restrictions during the COVID-19 pandemic whilst he was holding parties in Westminister. As prime minister, his supporters praised him for "getting Brexit done", overseeing the UK's COVID-19 vaccination programme, which was amongst the fastest in the world, and being one of the first world leaders to offer foreign aid to Ukraine following the Russian invasion of the country. Within Ukraine, Johnson is praised by many as a supporter of anti-Russian sanctions and military aid for Ukraine. His tenure also saw several controversies and scandals, and is viewed as the most scandalous premiership of modern British history by historians and biographers alike.
Under Boris Johnson's premiership, Britain imposed strict regulations on daily life during the COVID-19 lockdown. During this lockdown, Boris Johnson established what some critics say amounted to a COVID dictatorship whereby all manners of life became tightly controlled. Socialisation was curtailed, people were restricted from holding gatherings, and even mild interaction with others, even in one's own house, could result in arrest.  Although not mandatory, vaccination programmes were heavily encouraged, and the effectiveness of the vaccines and the necessity, strictness and fairness of the lockdowns are still debated today.