Title: Rick Riordan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rick_Riordan
Summary: Richard Russell Riordan Jr. ( RY-ər-dən; born June 5, 1964) is an American author, best known for his Camp Half-Blood Chronicles, which includes the Percy Jackson & the Olympians series, The Heroes of Olympus series, The Trials of Apollo series, and The Nico di Angelo Adventures series. Riordan's books have been translated into 42 languages and sold more than 30 million copies in the United States. 20th Century Fox adapted the first two books of his Percy Jackson series as part of a film series, which Riordan was not involved with. Riordan currently serves as a co-creator and an executive producer on the television series adaption of his Percy Jackson series that was released on Disney+ in 2023 and for which he won two Emmy Awards. Riordan's books have also spawned other related media, such as graphic novels and short story collections.

Riordan's first full-length novel was Big Red Tequila, which became the first book in the Tres Navarre series. His breakthrough was The Lightning Thief (2005), the first novel in the five-volume Percy Jackson & the Olympians series, which placed a group of modern-day adolescents in a Greco-Roman mythological setting. Since then, Riordan has written The Heroes of Olympus, a sequel to the Percy Jackson series; The Kane Chronicles, a trilogy of similar premise focusing on Egyptian mythology; and Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard, a trilogy of similar premise focusing on Norse mythology. Riordan also helped Scholastic Press develop The 39 Clues series and its spinoffs, and penned its first book, The Maze of Bones. In 2021, he published Daughter of the Deep. His fourth spin-off series set in the Percy Jackson universe, The Nico di Angelo Adventures, began on May 2, 2023 with the release of The Sun and the Star, co-written with author Mark Oshiro. Originally planned as a standalone novel, positive critical reception lead to the publishing of a sequel The Court of the Dead in 2025.

Title: V. E. Schwab
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/V._E._Schwab
Summary: Victoria Elizabeth Schwab (born July 7, 1987) is an American writer.  She is known for the 2013 novel Vicious, the Shades of Magic series, and The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue, which was nominated for the 2020 Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel. She publishes children's and young adult fiction books under the name Victoria Schwab. She is the creator of the supernatural teen drama series First Kill, based on her short story of the same name originally published in the 2020 anthology Vampires Never Get Old: Tales with Fresh Bite.

Title: Sarah J. Maas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarah_J._Maas
Summary: Sarah Janet Maas (born March 5, 1986) is an American fantasy author known for her series Throne of Glass, A Court of Thorns and Roses, and Crescent City. As of 2024, she has sold more than 75 million copies of her books and her work has been translated into 40 languages.

Title: R. F. Kuang
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/R._F._Kuang
Summary: Rebecca F. Kuang (Chinese: 匡灵秀; pinyin: Kuāng Língxiù; born May 29, 1996), writing as R. F. Kuang, is an American novelist and short-story writer. She is known for her fantasy novels, which include The Poppy War trilogy and her novel Babel, or the Necessity of Violence (2022), which placed first on The New York Times Best Seller list and won the 2022 Nebula Award for Best Novel. She is currently the  inaugural Millard Distinguished Writer in Residence at the College of the Holy Cross.

Title: Riley Sager
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riley_Sager
Summary: Todd Ritter, also known under the noms de plume of Riley Sager and Alan Finn, is an American author of thriller novels.