Title: University of the Pacific (United States)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_the_Pacific_(United_States)
Summary: University of the Pacific (Pacific or UOP) is a private, historically Methodist-affiliated university with its main campus in Stockton, California, United States, and graduate campuses in San Francisco and Sacramento. It was the first university chartered in the state of California (1851), the first independent coeducational campus in California, and the first conservatory of music and first medical school on the West Coast.
Pacific was chartered on July 10, 1851, in Santa Clara, California, under the name California Wesleyan College. The school moved to San Jose in 1871 and then to Stockton in 1924. Pacific is accredited by the WASC Senior College and University Commission. In addition to its liberal arts college, Pacific has schools of business, dentistry, education, engineering, law, music, pharmacy, and health sciences.
The University's Holt-Atherton Special Collections and Archives is the home of the largest collections of the works of famed naturalist, conservationist, and "Father of the National Parks" John Muir. Pacific's William Knox Holt Memorial Library and Learning Center, houses a museum style space for Muir's papers. The Muir Experience has physical and digital exhibits to inspire user interaction with Muir's work.

Title: University of the South Pacific
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_the_South_Pacific
Summary: The University of the South Pacific (USP) is a public research university with locations spread throughout a dozen countries in Oceania. Established in 1968, the university is organised as an intergovernmental organisation and is owned by the governments of 12 Pacific island countries: the Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Niue, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu.
USP is an international centre for teaching and research on Pacific culture and environment, with almost 30,000 students in 2017. The university's main campus is in Suva, Fiji, with subsidiary campuses in each member state.

Title: Alaska Pacific University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alaska_Pacific_University
Summary: Alaska Pacific University (APU) is a private university in Anchorage, Alaska, United States. It was established as Alaska Methodist University in 1957. Although it was renamed to Alaska Pacific University in 1978, it is still affiliated with the United Methodist Church. The main campus is located adjacent to the University of Alaska Anchorage (UAA) and the Alaska Native Medical Center.

Title: University of South Florida
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_South_Florida
Summary: The University of South Florida (USF) is a public research university with its main campus located in Tampa, Florida, United States, and another campus in St. Petersburg. USF did own a campus in Sarasota, however, a Florida budget deal transferred ownership of the campus from USF to New College of Florida on July 1, 2026. It is one of 12 members of the State University System of Florida. USF is home to 14 colleges, offering more than 245 undergraduate, graduate, specialist, and doctoral-level degree programs. USF is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity" and is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. USF is a member of the Association of American Universities (AAU)  and is designated by the Florida Board of Governors as one of three Preeminent State Research Universities.
Founded in 1956, USF is the fourth largest university in Florida by enrollment, with 49,876 students from over 145 countries, all 50 states, all five U.S. territories, and the District of Columbia as of the 2022–2023 academic year.
In 2022, the university reported an annual budget of $2.31 billion and an annual economic impact of over $6 billion. According to the National Science Foundation, USF spent $568 million on research and development in 2019, ranking it 43rd in the nation and 25th among public universities. USF's $889 million endowment is the third-largest among Florida public universities and the largest of any American public university founded post-World War II.
In its 2018 ranking, the Intellectual Property Owners Association placed USF 1st in Florida, 7th in the United States, and 16th worldwide in the number of US patents granted. USF faculty, staff, students, and alumni collectively hold over 2,400 patents. USF is home to the National Academy of Inventors and the Florida Inventors Hall of Fame, both located in the USF Research Park in the southwest side of campus.
USF's sports teams are known as the South Florida Bulls and primarily compete in the American Conference of NCAA Division I. USF's 21 varsity teams have won a combined 6 national championships and 171 conference championships. Athletes representing the Bulls have won an additional 24 individual and relay national championships and 256 individual and relay conference championships.

Title: President University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_University
Summary: President University (Indonesian: Universitas Presiden) (abbreviated as PresUniv) is a private university located in the Jababeka Industrial Estate in Cikarang. The university officially began its operations on April 16, 2004, through Ministerial Decree 54/D/0/2004.