Title: Ligue 1
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ligue_1
Summary: Ligue 1 (French: [liɡ œ̃]; lit. 'League 1'), officially known as Ligue 1 McDonald's for sponsorship reasons, is a professional association football league in France and the highest level of the French football league system. Administered by the Ligue de Football Professionnel, Ligue 1 is contested by 18 clubs and operates on a system of promotion and relegation from and to Ligue 2. Seasons run from August to May. Most games are played on Saturdays and Sundays, with a few games played during weekday evenings.  
Ligue 1 was inaugurated on 11 September 1932 under the name National before switching to Division 1 after a year of existence. It continued to operate under that name until 2002, when it adopted its current name. Ligue 1 ranks fifth in the UEFA coefficient rankings as of 2025–26 based on performances in European competitions over the past five seasons, behind England's Premier League, Italy's Serie A, Spain's La Liga and Germany's Bundesliga. 
PSG are the most successful club, with 14 league titles, and the current defending champions as of the 2026–27 season.

Title: 2010–11 Ligue 1
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2010%E2%80%9311_Ligue_1
Summary: The 2010–11 Ligue 1 season was the 73rd since its establishment. Entering the season, Marseille were the defending champions. The fixtures were announced on 21 May 2010 and the season began on 7 August and ended on 29 May 2011. The winter break was in effect between 23 December and 15 January 2011. There were three promoted teams from Ligue 2, replacing the three teams that were relegated from Ligue 1 following the 2009–10 season. A total of 20 teams currently competes in the league with three clubs suffering relegation to the second division, Ligue 2. All clubs that secured Ligue 1 status for the season were subject to approval by the DNCG before becoming eligible to participate. In addition, German sportswear company Puma, whom the Ligue de Football Professionnel share a partnership with, provided a brand new match ball for the new season.
Lille clinched the league title on 21 May 2011 with one match to spare after drawing 2–2 with Paris Saint-Germain away at the Parc des Princes.
The title was the club's third overall and its first in over 57 years. As a result of Lille also winning the Coupe de France during the season, the club became the third different club in three consecutive seasons to win some form of the double in France. In 2009, Bordeaux captured the league and league cup double and, in the following season, Marseille did the same.

Title: List of footballers with the most goals in a single game
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_footballers_with_the_most_goals_in_a_single_game
Summary: This is a list of players with the most goals in a football game. This list only includes players who have scored the most multiple goals in first class or fully professional matches for country or club. Players are listed by number of goals scored in an individual game. Players on equal goals are listed in chronological order.  The current world record for an international is held by Archie Thompson, who scored 13 goals against American Samoa in Australia's 31–0 victory during the 2002 FIFA World Cup qualification. David Zdrilic scored 8 goals.
In November 2022, Shokhan Nooraldin Salihi scored 15 goals in the match of Al-Hilal against Sama in the 2022–23 Saudi Women's Premier League. In this match, Al-Hilal beat Sama 18–0. She broke the previous record of Passang Tshering for most goals in any top-flight match with 14 each. In the most prolific European football leagues, the Premier League (and the Football League First Division before it), La Liga, Serie A and the Bundesliga, the top scorers per game have much lower tallies: seven in England and Spain and six in Italy and Germany. The last player in these leagues to score seven goals in a match was László Kubala in 1952 for Barcelona.

Title: List of career achievements by Lionel Messi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_career_achievements_by_Lionel_Messi
Summary: Argentine footballer Lionel Messi, widely regarded as one of the greatest athletes of all time, and by many as the greatest footballer in history, has been awarded throughout his career a total of eight Ballon d'Or awards and three The Best FIFA Men's Player awards, the most of any player.
He is also the only player to win the FIFA World Cup Golden Ball and FIFA Club World Cup Golden Ball twice. Messi holds the records for the most goals in European club competitions (704), Europe’s Top Five Leagues (496), La Liga (474), Supercopa de España (14), UEFA Super Cup (3) and is also the first and only player in history to win five and six European Golden Shoes. He has scored 928 goals for club and country, including 125 international goals, 21 goals at the FIFA World Cup, 129 goals in the UEFA Champions League, and 6 goals in the FIFA Club World Cup throughout his professional career, making him the second-highest all-time goalscorer in mentioned career and competitions. Messi is also the player with the most official recorded assists in football history (423), international football (65), FIFA World Cup (12), Copa América (18), La Liga (192), Copa del Rey (33) and Supercopa de España (5). Collectively, Messi has won 44 senior trophies (including FIFA World Cup, Finalissima, Copa América, FIFA Club World Cup, UEFA Super Cup and UEFA Champions League) and 46 official trophies including youth-level honours (FIFA U-20 World Cup and Summer Olympics Gold Medal) in his career.

Title: Big Five (association football)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Five_(association_football)
Summary: The Big Five is a collective term in association football for five leading European men's club football leagues: England's Premier League, France's Ligue 1, Germany's Bundesliga, Italy's Serie A, and Spain's La Liga..
The Premier League in England is the most financially lucrative league; it generates billions in revenue annually and holds the largest worldwide audience. The Premier League is also known for being home to the "Big Six" teams. The Bundesliga in Germany is celebrated for its high attendance rates and fan engagement. La Liga in Spain is the home to the clubs FC Barcelona and Real Madrid, two of the largest clubs in the world with a combined 20 Champions Leagues between them. Italy's Serie A is known for its tactical sophistication. France's Ligue 1 is considered the smallest of the "Big Five", holding the smallest audience and financial standing of the five. It is most known for producing and enriching young talent, as well as its largest club, Paris Saint-Germain.