Title: List of programs broadcast by the American Broadcasting Company
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_programs_broadcast_by_the_American_Broadcasting_Company
Summary: The American Broadcasting Company (ABC) is an American commercial broadcasting television network that launched in 1948. It is owned by the Disney Entertainment division of The Walt Disney Company and is one of the "Big Four" television networks. Below is a list of programs currently broadcast on the network.

Title: Kim Raver
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Raver
Summary: Kimberly Jayne Raver (born March 15, 1969) is an American actress. She is best known for her portrayal of cardiothoracic surgeon Dr. Teddy Altman on the ABC medical drama Grey's Anatomy (2009–2012; 
2017–2026), Kim Zambrano on Third Watch (1999–2005), and Audrey Raines on 24 (2005–2007).

Title: Grey's Anatomy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grey%27s_Anatomy
Summary: Grey's Anatomy is an American medical drama television series focusing on the personal and professional lives of surgical interns, residents, and attendings at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital (later renamed Seattle Grace Mercy West Hospital, and finally Grey Sloan Memorial Hospital). The series premiered on March 27, 2005, on ABC as a mid-season replacement and has been renewed annually for two decades. Its title is a mixture of the protagonist's surname and the name of the classic human anatomy textbook Gray's Anatomy. Writer Shonda Rhimes developed the pilot and served as showrunner, head writer, and executive producer until stepping down in 2015. Set in Seattle, Washington, the series is filmed primarily in Los Angeles, California, and Vancouver, British Columbia.
The original cast consisted of nine star-billed actors: Ellen Pompeo, Sandra Oh, Katherine Heigl, Justin Chambers, T. R. Knight, Chandra Wilson, James Pickens Jr., Isaiah Washington, and Patrick Dempsey. For most of its run, the series revolves around Dr. Meredith Grey (Pompeo), chronicling her progression from surgical intern to fully-qualified doctor. The cast has undergone major changes throughout the series' run, with only three original members remaining by the 19th season – Pompeo, Wilson, and Pickens. Pompeo stepped back from the series in its 19th season, at which point the show shifted to more of an ensemble format. In March 2026, ABC renewed the series for a 23rd season, which is set to premiere in the fall of 2026. Grey's Anatomy has two spin-off series: Private Practice (2007–2013) and Station 19 (2018–2024); as well as a web series, Grey's Anatomy: B-Team.
Grey's Anatomy is the longest-running scripted primetime show currently airing on ABC, and the longest scripted primetime series carried by ABC. Its success catapulted many series regulars, including Pompeo, Oh, and Dempsey, to worldwide recognition; they were among the five highest-earning television actors in 2013. Once among the overall top 10 shows in the United States, the show's ratings have fallen, although as of 2017 it was still one of the highest-rated shows among the 18–49 demographic. The show also does well on streaming television; as of February 2023, Grey's Anatomy was ranked the 10th most popular on-demand program.
Grey's Anatomy has been well received by critics throughout much of its run and has been included in various critics' year-end top 10 lists. Since its inception, the show has been described by the media outlets as a television "phenomenon" or a "juggernaut", owing to its longevity and dominant ratings. It is considered to have had a significant effect on popular culture and has received numerous awards, including the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series – Drama and a total of 38 Primetime Emmy Award nominations, including 2 for Outstanding Drama Series. The cast members have also received accolades for their individual performances.

Title: Shonda Rhimes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shonda_Rhimes
Summary: Shonda Lynn Rhimes (born January 13, 1970) is an American television producer and screenwriter, and founder of the production company Shondaland. Rhimes became known as the first showrunner—creator, head writer and executive producer—of the medical drama Grey's Anatomy (2005–present), its spin-off Private Practice (2007–2013) and the political thriller Scandal (2012–2018), becoming the first African American female showrunner to create three television dramas that have achieved the 100 episode milestone.
Rhimes has served as the executive producer of the ABC thriller series How to Get Away with Murder (2014–2020), the Netflix period series Bridgerton (2020–present) and Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story (2023) and crime drama Inventing Anna (2022). She has been nominated five times for a Primetime Emmy Award, won a Golden Globe Award and a Daytime Emmy Award, and received special honors at the British Academy Television Awards and  International Emmy Awards.
In 2015, Rhimes was inducted into the NAB Broadcasting Hall of Fame. In 2017, she was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame and became a Chair's Appointee of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences's executive committee. She is also part of the USC Film Council and the Writers Guild Inclusion Committee.
In 2007, 2013, and 2021, Rhimes was named by Time to the Time 100, their annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world. As of 2023, she is one of the richest women entertainers in America, with a net worth of $250 million. In 2015, she published her first book, a memoir, Year of Yes: How to Dance It Out, Stand in the Sun, and Be Your Own Person. In 2016, Rhimes formed The Rhimes Family Foundation whose mission is to support arts, education, and activism.

Title: Izzie Stevens
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Izzie_Stevens
Summary: Isobel Katherine "Izzie" Stevens, M.D. is a fictional character from the medical drama television series Grey's Anatomy, which airs on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) in the United States. The character was created by series producer Shonda Rhimes, and was portrayed by actress Katherine Heigl from 2005 to 2010. Introduced as a surgical intern at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital, Izzie worked her way up to resident level, while her relationships with her colleagues Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo), Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh), Alex Karev (Justin Chambers) and George O'Malley (T. R. Knight) formed a focal point of the series.
Heigl garnered widespread critical acclaim for her performance as Izzie and received numerous awards and nominations for her role, winning Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series at the 59th Primetime Emmy Awards in 2007. Her win was particularly notable in the history of Grey's Anatomy, as Heigl remains the only cast member to have won an individual Primetime Emmy Award for acting for her performance in the series. Although the series itself has received and won multiple Emmy Awards across various categories, none of its other principal cast members have won an individual acting Emmy. She was critical of the character's development during the show's fourth season, particularly her romance with her on-screen best friend George. She declined to pursue a nomination for the 2008 Emmy Awards, citing insufficient material in the role. After speculation that Izzie would be killed off in the fifth season, the character was diagnosed with Stage 4 metastatic melanoma. She married Alex in the series' 100th episode, and afterwards, her tumor was successfully removed. Heigl made her final series regular appearance as Izzie in the sixth season, leaving Seattle after Alex refused to resume their marriage. The actress requested to be released from her contract 18 months early, in order to spend more time with her family. Ten years after her final appearance, the character's fate was revealed in a season 16 episode, where she makes a visual cameo re-appearance.