Title: Marathon world record progression
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marathon_world_record_progression
Summary: World records in the marathon are ratified by World Athletics, the international governing body for the sport of athletics.
Sabastian Sawe set the men's world record of 1:59:30 at the London Marathon on April 26, 2026, becoming the first person in history to run a sub two-hour marathon in race conditions. 
Kenyan athlete Ruth Chepng'etich broke the women's world record with a time of 2:09:56 on October 13, 2024, at the 2024 Chicago Marathon, a mixed-sex race.
In addition to the standard women's marathon world record, World Athletics recognizes a second world record for women in the "Women Only" category for races run on a course without any male athletes in the competition. The current "Women Only" record of 2:15:41 was set by Tigst Assefa on April 26, 2026, at the London Marathon in the elite women's race.

Title: New York City Marathon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_City_Marathon
Summary: The New York City Marathon, currently branded as the TCS New York City Marathon for sponsorship reasons, is an annual marathon (42.195 km or 26.219 mi) that courses through the five boroughs of New York City, United States. It is among the largest marathons in the world, with 59,135 finishers in 2025 and over 200,000 applicants for the 2025 race. Along with the Boston Marathon and Chicago Marathon, it is among the pre-eminent long-distance annual running events in the United States, and one of the Abbott World Marathon Majors.
The race is organized by New York Road Runners and has been run every year since 1970, with the exception of 2012, when it was cancelled due to the landfall of Hurricane Sandy, and 2020, when it was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The race is held on the first Sunday of November and attracts professional competitors and amateurs from all over the world. Because of the popularity of the race, participation is chosen largely by a lottery system. The lottery is conducted through drawing from three pools, "NYC Metro Area" applicants, "National" applicants, and "International" applicants. In 2025, there were more than 200,000 applications, and only 2-3% will be accepted. Guaranteed entry to the marathon can be gained by satisfying the requirements of the 9+1 program (where NYRR members run in nine sponsored races and volunteer at another event), becoming a NYRR Philanthropic Member at the 5K and 10K level, having completed 15 or more previous NYC Marathons, or meeting time qualification standards. In addition, runners can gain an entry by joining a team to raise funds for one of a number of charities.

Title: New York City
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_City
Summary: New York, often called New York City (NYC), is the most populous city in the United States.  It is located at the southern tip of New York State on New York Harbor, one of the world's largest natural harbors. The city comprises five boroughs—Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx, and Staten Island—each being coextensive with its respective county. It is the geographical and demographic center of both the Northeast megalopolis and the New York metropolitan area, the largest metropolitan area in the United States by both population and urban area. New York is a global center of technology, finance and commerce, culture, entertainment and media, academics and scientific output, the arts and fashion—and as home to the headquarters of the United Nations, international diplomacy. New York City is known for its fast pace and continuous urban energy.
With an estimated population of 8,584,629 in July 2025, distributed over 300.46 square miles (778.2 km2), New York is the most densely populated major city in the United States. New York City has more than double the population of Los Angeles, the country's second-most populous city. More than 20.1 million people live in New York City's metropolitan statistical area, and over 23.5 million people live in its combined statistical area as of 2020; both are the largest in the U.S. New York City is one of the world's most populous megacities. The city and its metropolitan area serve as the premier gateway for legal immigration to the United States. An estimated 800 languages are spoken in New York City, making it the most linguistically diverse city in the world. The New York City metropolitan region is home to the largest foreign-born population of any metropolitan region in the world, numbering approximately 5.9 million people as of 2023.
Manhattan Island was inhabited by Munsee-speaking Lenape around 1624. By then, Dutch colonists had established Fort Amsterdam as a center of trade on the island. This was the first European settlement in what would become New York City. The settlement was named New Amsterdam in 1626 and was chartered as a city in 1653. The city came under English control in 1664 and was temporarily renamed New York after Charles II granted the lands to his brother, the Duke of York, before this name was permanently adopted in 1674. Following independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain, the city was the national capital of the United States from 1785 until 1790. The modern city was formed by the 1898 consolidation of its five boroughs.
Anchored by Wall Street in Manhattan's Financial District, New York City has been called both the world's premier financial and fintech center and the most economically powerful city in the world. As of 2024, the New York metropolitan area is the largest metropolitan economy in the world, with a gross metropolitan product of over US$2.44 trillion. The New York metropolitan area's economy is larger than all but nine countries. Despite having a 24/7 rapid transit system, New York also leads the world in urban automobile traffic congestion. The city is home to the world's two largest stock exchanges by market capitalization of their listed companies: the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. New York City is an established haven for global investors. 
As of 2025, New York City is the most expensive city in the world for expatriates and has the highest residential rent costs of any American city; New York County (Manhattan) is by a significant margin the most expensive U.S. county in terms of average home price per square foot and produces the highest U.S. county GDP by both absolute and per capita measures. Fifth Avenue is an ultra-luxury international shopping corridor that is undergoing additional infrastructure investment. Amidst escalating affordability concerns, New York City is home to the highest number of billionaires, individuals of ultra-high net worth (greater than US$30 million), and millionaires of any city in the world by a significant margin.

Title: New York City Half Marathon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_City_Half_Marathon
Summary: The New York City Half Marathon (branded as the United Airlines NYC Half) is an annual half marathon road running race held since 2006 in New York City, United States. It connects Brooklyn's Prospect Park with Manhattan's Central Park via the Manhattan Bridge, passing through or by Times Square, Grand Central, and both Grand Army Plazas. New York Road Runners (NYRR) administers the race.

Title: List of winners of the Sydney Marathon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_winners_of_the_Sydney_Marathon
Summary: The Sydney Marathon has been held annually since 2001, except in 2020 and 2021 when it was not held due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Starting with the 2025 edition of the race, the Sydney Marathon is part of the World Marathon Majors, along with the marathons of Berlin, Boston, Chicago, London, New York City, and Tokyo.