Title: Smartphone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smartphone
Summary: A smartphone is a mobile device that combines the functionality of a traditional mobile phone (feature phone) with advanced computing capabilities. It typically has a touchscreen interface, allowing users to access a wide range of applications and services, such as web browsing, email, and social media, as well as multimedia playback and streaming. Smartphones have built-in cameras, GPS navigation, and support for various communication methods, including voice calls, text messaging, and internet-based messaging apps. Smartphones are distinguished from older-design feature phones by their more advanced hardware capabilities and extensive mobile operating systems, access to the internet, business applications, mobile payments, and multimedia functionality, including music, video, gaming, radio, and television.
Smartphones typically feature metal–oxide–semiconductor (MOS) integrated circuit (IC) chips, various sensors, and support for multiple wireless communication protocols. Examples of smartphone sensors include accelerometers, barometers, gyroscopes, and magnetometers; they can be used by both pre-installed and third-party software to enhance functionality. Wireless communication standards supported by smartphones include LTE, 5G NR, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and satellite navigation. By the mid-2020s, manufacturers began integrating satellite messaging and emergency services, expanding their utility in remote areas without reliable cellular coverage. Smartphones have largely replaced personal digital assistant (PDA) devices, handheld/palm-sized PCs, portable media players (PMP), point-and-shoot cameras, camcorders, and, to a lesser extent, handheld video game consoles, e-reader devices, pocket calculators, and GPS tracking units.
Following the rising popularity of the iPhone in the late 2000s, the majority of smartphones have featured thin, slate-like form factors with large, capacitive touch screens with support for multi-touch gestures rather than physical keyboards. Most modern smartphones have the ability for users to download or purchase additional applications from a centralized app store. They often have support for cloud storage and cloud synchronization, and virtual assistants. Since the early 2010s, improved hardware and faster wireless communication have bolstered the growth of the smartphone industry. As of 2014, over a billion smartphones are sold globally every year. In 2019 alone, 1.54 billion smartphone units were shipped worldwide. As of 2020, 75.05 percent of the world population were smartphone users. Although smartphone use has been associated to some extent with convenience and life satisfaction, a variety of negative effects on physical, mental, and cognitive health have also been identified.

Title: Usage share of operating systems
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_operating_systems
Summary: The usage share of an operating system is the percentage of computers running that operating system (OS). These statistics are estimates as usage data is difficult to obtain and measure. Reliable primary sources are limited and data collection methodology is not formally agreed upon.
Devices connecting to the World Wide Web log which operating system they are using, and so are an approximate measure of OS usage among consumer devices. As of December 2025, among all devices Android, which uses the Linux kernel, is the world's most common operating system to connect to the web with 34.9% of the global market, followed by Windows with 29.98%, iOS with 16.81%, macOS with 2.03%, and other operating systems with 9.06% total.
Between different classes of devices:

For smartphones and other mobile devices, Android has 72% share of traffic, and Apple's iOS has 28%.
For desktop computers and laptops, Microsoft Windows has 62.16%, followed by unknown operating systems at 18.75%, Mac OS at 14.58%, desktop Linux at 3.09%, then Google's ChromeOS at 1.42%, as of June 2026.
For tablets, Apple's iPadOS (a variant of iOS) has 51.23% share and Android has 48.61% worldwide.
Of the top 500 most powerful supercomputers, all since November 2017 have used Linux. 
The global server operating system market share has Linux leading with a 63.1% market share, followed by Windows, Unix and other operating systems.
The most numerous type of device with an operating system are embedded systems. Not all embedded systems have operating systems, instead running their application code on the "bare metal"; of those that do have operating systems, a high percentage are standalone or do not have a web browser, which makes their usage share difficult to measure. Some operating systems used in embedded systems are more widely used than some of those mentioned above. For example, modern Intel microprocessors contain an embedded management processor running a version of the Minix operating system.

Title: List of best-selling mobile phones
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_mobile_phones
Summary: This is a list of best-selling mobile phones. The best-selling mobile devices are the bar phones Nokia 1100 and 1110, released in 2003 and 2005, respectively. Both models have sold over 250 million units. The best-selling touchscreen phones are the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, both released in 2014. Together, they have sold over 222 million units. The best-selling flip phone is the Motorola Razr V3, released in 2004. It sold over 130 million units. The best-selling slider phone is the Samsung E250, released in 2006. It has sold over 30 million units.
Of the 115 phones on the list, Samsung sold the most models, with 37. Nokia has 27 models, including four of the top 10. Apple has 16 entries on the list, including the six best selling touchscreen phones, which comprise the remainder of the top 10.
Combined, all mobile phones have shipped 26,309,115,000 units worldwide between 1992 and 2020, and 28,900,614,000 units between 1992 and 2022.

Title: Mobile phone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobile_phone
Summary: A mobile phone or cell phone is a portable wireless  telephone that allows users to make and receive calls over a radio frequency link while moving within a designated telephone service area, unlike fixed-location phones (landline phones). This radio frequency link connects to the switching systems of a mobile phone operator, providing access to the public switched telephone network (PSTN). Modern mobile telephony relies on a cellular network architecture, which is why mobile phones are often referred to as 'cell phones' in North America.
Beyond traditional voice communication, digital mobile phones have evolved to support a wide range of additional services. These include text messaging, multimedia messaging, email, and internet access (via LTE, 5G NR or Wi-Fi), as well as short-range wireless technologies like Bluetooth, infrared, and ultra-wideband (UWB).
Mobile phones also support a variety of multimedia capabilities, such as digital photography, video recording, and gaming. In addition, they enable multimedia playback and streaming, including video content, as well as radio and television streaming. Furthermore, mobile phones offer satellite-based services, such as navigation and messaging, as well as business applications and payment solutions (via scanning QR codes or near-field communication (NFC)). Mobile phones offering only basic features are often referred to as feature phones (slang: dumbphones), while those with advanced computing power are known as smartphones.
The first handheld mobile phone was demonstrated by Martin Cooper of Motorola in New York City on 3 April 1973, using a handset weighing c. 2 kilograms (4.4 lbs). In 1979, Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT) launched the world's first cellular network in Japan. In 1983, the DynaTAC 8000x was the first commercially available handheld mobile phone. From 1993 to 2024, worldwide mobile phone subscriptions grew to over 9.1 billion; enough to provide one for every person on Earth. In 2024, the top smartphone manufacturers worldwide were Samsung, Apple and Xiaomi; smartphone sales represented about 50 percent of total mobile phone sales. For feature phones as of 2016, the top-selling brands were Samsung, Nokia and Alcatel.
Mobile phones are considered an important human invention as they have been one of the most widely used and sold pieces of consumer technology. The growth in popularity has been rapid in some places; for example, in the UK, the total number of mobile phones overtook the number of houses in 1999. Today, mobile phones are globally ubiquitous, and in almost half the world's countries, over 90% of the world population, or approximately 7.2 billion people, owns at least one.

Title: 2025–present global memory supply shortage
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025%E2%80%93present_global_memory_supply_shortage
Summary: A global computer memory supply shortage started in 2025 due to supply constraints and rapid price escalation in the semiconductor memory market, particularly affecting DRAM and NAND flash integrated circuits. This shortage has been referred to in media outlets as "RAMmageddon" or the "RAMpocalypse". Unlike the 2020–2023 global chip shortage, which stemmed primarily from pandemic-related supply chain disruptions from COVID-19, this shortage is driven by the intentional reallocation of manufacturing capacity toward highly profitable products intended for AI data center development, creating a scarcity of integrated circuits intended for the consumer and enterprise markets. According to a 2026 Kearney's PERLab analysis, the shortage is expected to last at least until 2030. In June 2026, Micron Technology CEO Sanjay Mehrotra expected the shortage to last through 2027, and supply to gradually improve by 2028. In August 2026, Jaejune Kim of Samsung Electronics expects the shortage to continue through 2028, while Kwak Noh-Jung of SK Hynix expects it to persist until 2030.