Title: India national cricket team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/India_national_cricket_team
Summary: The India men's national cricket team represents India in international cricket. It is governed by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and is a full member nation of the International Cricket Council with Test, One Day International (ODI) and Twenty20 International (T20I) status. India are the current holders of the T20 World Cup, the ICC Champions Trophy, and the Asia Cup. 
The team has played 601 Test matches, winning 187, losing 188, with 225 draws and 1 tie. India have played in two of the three World Test Championship finals, finishing runners-up twice in 2021 and 2023.
The team has played 1,081 ODI matches, winning 575, losing 452, tying 10, and with 44 ending in a no-result. India have played in the World Cup final four times and have won the title twice in 1983 and 2011. They have also won the Champions Trophy, a record three times in 2002s, 2013, and 2025. India have also won the ODI Asia Cup for a record seven times. 
The team has played 289 T20I matches, winning 192, losing 81, tying 7, and with 9 ending in a no-result. India have played in the T20 World Cup final four times and have won the title, a record three times in 2007, 2024, and 2026. India have also won the T20I Asia Cup for a record two times.

Title: Pakistan national cricket team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pakistan_national_cricket_team
Summary: The Pakistan men's national cricket team represents Pakistan in international cricket. It is controlled by the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB), the governing body for cricket in Pakistan, which is a Full Member of the International Cricket Council (ICC). Pakistan compete in cricket tours and tournaments sanctioned by the PCB and other regional or international cricket bodies in Test, One Day International (ODI), and Twenty20 International (T20) formats.
Pakistan were given Test status in 1952 following a recommendation from India, but faced limited international success until the 1980s, when they became fixtures in the latter stages of tournaments. They won their first international trophy, the ICC World Cup, in 1992, and then won the Asia Cup in 2000. They saw increased success in the 21st century, winning the T20 World Cup in 2009, the Asia Cup in 2012, and ICC Champions Trophy in 2017.
Pakistan has been plagued by security concerns and domestic instability due to terrorism and the war on terror, restricting it as a venue for international cricket in the 21st century. Despite hosting the 1987 and 1996 World Cups (with the 1996 final played in Lahore), cricket was not played in the country after an attack against the Sri Lanka national team in 2009; Pakistan then played one-day games in the United Arab Emirates until 2016 and Test games in the UAE until 2019. International cricket was resumed in Pakistan from 2016, which coincided with the debut of the Pakistan Super League, following improvements in security and overall reduction in terrorism.

Title: Cricket
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cricket
Summary: Cricket is a bat-and-ball game that is played between two teams of eleven players on a field, at the centre of which is a 22-yard (20-metre; 66-foot) pitch with a wicket at each end, each comprising two bails (small sticks) balanced on three stumps. Two players from the batting team, the striker and nonstriker, stand in front of either wicket holding bats, while one player from the fielding team, the bowler, bowls the ball toward the striker's wicket from the opposite end of the pitch. The striker's goal is to hit the bowled ball with the bat and then switch places with the nonstriker, with the batting team scoring one run for each of these swaps. Runs are also scored when the ball reaches the boundary of the field or when the ball is bowled illegally.
The fielding team aims to prevent runs by dismissing batters (so they are "out"). Dismissal can occur in various ways, including being bowled (when the ball hits the striker's wicket and dislodges the bails), and by the fielding side either catching the ball after it is hit by the bat but before it hits the ground, or hitting a wicket with the ball before a batter can cross the crease line in front of the wicket. When ten batters have been dismissed, the innings (playing phase) ends and the teams swap roles. Forms of cricket range from traditional Test matches played over five days to the newer Twenty20 format (also known as T20), in which each team bats for a single innings of 20 overs (each "over" being a set of 6 fair opportunities for the batting team to score) and the game generally lasts three to four hours.
Traditionally, cricketers play in all-white kit, but in limited overs cricket, they wear club or team colours. In addition to the basic kit, some players wear protective gear to prevent injury caused by the ball, which is a hard, solid spheroid made of compressed leather with a slightly raised sewn seam enclosing a cork core layered with tightly wound string.
The earliest known definite reference to cricket is to it being played in South East England in the mid-16th century. It spread globally with the expansion of the British Empire, with the first international matches in the second half of the 19th century. The game's governing body is the International Cricket Council (ICC), which has over 100 members, twelve of which are full members who play Test matches. The game's rules, the Laws of Cricket, are maintained by the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) in London. The sport is primarily played in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Australia, New Zealand, England and Wales, South Africa and the West Indies.
While cricket has traditionally been played largely by men, women's cricket has experienced significant growth in the 21st century.
The most successful side playing international cricket is Australia, which has won eight One Day International trophies, including six World Cups, more than any other country, and has been the top-rated Test side more than any other country.

Title: London Spirit
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Spirit
Summary: London Spirit are a franchise 100-ball cricket team based in North London. The team represents the historic counties of Middlesex, Essex and Northamptonshire in The Hundred, which took place for the first time during the 2021 English and Welsh cricket season. Both the men's and women's teams play their home games at Lord's.

Title: MI London
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MI_London
Summary: MI London, formerly known as Oval Invincibles, is a 100-ball cricket franchise based in South London. The team represents Surrey and Kent in The Hundred competition, which took place for the first time during the 2021 English cricket season. Both the men's side and the women's side play at The Oval.