Mark Joseph Carney (born March 16, 1965) is a Canadian politician, economist, and banker who is the 24th prime minister of Canada and leader of the Liberal Party, serving since 2025. Carney is the member of Parliament (MP) for Nepean since his election in April 2025. He was previously Governor of the Bank of Canada from 2008 to 2013 and Governor of the Bank of England from 2013 to 2020.
Carney was born in Fort Smith, Northwest Territories, and raised in Edmonton, Alberta. He graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics from Harvard University in 1987, and earned a master's degree in 1993 and a doctorate in 1995 from the University of Oxford, both in economics. Carney worked at Goldman Sachs for 13 years before joining the Bank of Canada in 2003 as a deputy governor. In 2004, he joined the Department of Finance Canada as a senior associate deputy minister. Carney served as the eighth governor of the Bank of Canada from 2008 to 2013. As governor, he oversaw Canadian monetary policy during the 2008 global financial crisis. He was appointed as the second chair of the Financial Stability Board in 2011, serving for two terms until 2018. After his term as Governor of the Bank of Canada, Carney was appointed as the 120th governor of the Bank of England, becoming the first non-British incumbent. He served from 2013 to 2020, leading the central bank's responses to Brexit and the early phase of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Following his governorship, Carney held several roles in the private and public sectors. He served as chair of Bloomberg L.P., vice-chair at Brookfield Asset Management, and co-chair of the World Bank's private sector investment lab. He was the United Nations Secretary-General's Special Envoy on Climate Action and Finance from 2020. He was an informal advisor to Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, before returning to the private sector. After Trudeau announced his resignation in 2025, Carney won the Liberal Party leadership election in a landslide victory. The first prime minister never to have held elected office, Carney then advised the governor general to dissolve Parliament and trigger a federal election. In that election, he led the Liberals to a minority government—overturning previous poor opinion polling to win the party's fourth consecutive mandate since 2015—and was elected to represent the riding of Nepean in the House of Commons. A year later, Carney's Liberals formed a majority government as a result of opposition MPs crossing the floor and by-election victories.
During his tenure as prime minister, Carney removed the federal consumer carbon tax, enacted the One Canadian Economy Act in response to a trade war started by the United States, launched the Build Canada Homes agency, and introduced the Canada Groceries and Essentials Benefit. Carney's government oversaw a sharp increase in defence spending, formally recognized the State of Palestine, improved relations with China and with India, and has continued support for Ukraine in the Russo-Ukrainian war. Carney is ideologically characterized as a centrist, technocrat, and a Blue Grit Liberal; as prime minister, he has moved the Liberals towards the political centre.


== Early life and education ==
Mark Joseph Carney was born on March 16, 1965, at St. Ann's General Hospital in Fort Smith, Northwest Territories. He has three siblings: an older brother and sister, Seán and Brenda, and a younger brother, Brian. When Carney was six, his family moved to Edmonton, Alberta's Laurier Heights where he was raised.
Carney is the son of Verlie Margaret (née Kemper), a stay-at-home mother originally from Britannia Beach, British Columbia, and Robert J. Carney, a high school principal and Professor of Educational Foundations at the University of Alberta. His father was the Liberal candidate for Edmonton South in the 1980 federal election, placing second. His mother returned to university to pursue a career in education when Carney was ten. Three of his four grandparents were Irish, from Aughagower in County Mayo.
Carney graduated as valedictorian in the class of 1983 from St. Francis Xavier High School, Edmonton, Alberta. From there, he went on to study at Harvard University with a partial scholarship and financial aid. During his Harvard years, he was backup goalie for the varsity ice hockey team and was a roommate of future NHL general manager Peter Chiarelli and former ice hockey player Mark Benning. He lived at Winthrop House, and graduated in 1987 with a bachelor's degree in economics magna cum laude.
After Harvard, he travelled to Europe to study at the University of Oxford. There, he undertook postgraduate studies at St Peter's College and Nuffield College, where he received Master of Philosophy (MPhil) and Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) degrees in economics in 1993 and 1995, respectively. His master's thesis was titled "Competitive advantage and the advantage of competition: a theoretical analysis of national champions, learning-by-doing and spillovers", and his doctoral thesis was titled "The dynamic advantage of competition". His doctoral advisor was Margaret Meyer. While at Oxford, he was co-captain of the Oxford University Ice Hockey Club alongside fellow Canadian David Lametti, whom he would later appoint as Permanent Representative of Canada to the UN.
In 2021, Carney was elected to Harvard University's Board of Overseers through to 2027. He resigned in early 2025, around the time he assumed leadership of the Liberal Party.


== Financial career ==
Carney spent 13 years at investment bank Goldman Sachs initially from 1988 to 1993 and thereafter from 1995 to 2003. He worked in their Boston, London, New York City, Tokyo, and Toronto offices. His progressively more senior positions included co-head of sovereign risk, executive director for emerging debt capital markets, and managing director for investment banking. He worked on South Africa's post-apartheid venture into internati