Title: Formula One
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formula_One
Summary: Formula One (F1) is the highest class of worldwide racing for open-wheel, single-seater formula racing cars run by the Formula One Group and sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The FIA Formula One World Championship has been one of the world's premier forms of motorsport since its inaugural running in 1950 and is often considered to be the pinnacle of motorsport. The word formula in the name refers to the set of rules all participant cars must follow. A Formula One season consists of a series of races, known as Grands Prix. Grands Prix take place in multiple countries and continents on either purpose-built circuits or closed roads, as street circuits.
A points scoring system is used at Grands Prix to determine two annual World Championships: one for the drivers, and one for the constructors—now synonymous with teams. Each driver must hold a valid Super Licence, the highest class of racing licence the FIA issues, and the races must be held on Grade One tracks, the highest grade rating the FIA issues for circuits.
The commercial rights to F1 are leased to Liberty Media Corporation, acquired in 2017 for an estimated $8 billion, previously owned by British business magnate Bernie Ecclestone. The new ownership added five Grands Prix to the calendar: Miami, Las Vegas, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Dutch.
Formula One cars are the world's fastest regulated road-course racing cars, owing to high cornering speeds achieved by generating large amounts of aerodynamic downforce, most of which is generated by front and rear wings, as well as underbody tunnels. The cars depend on electronics, aerodynamics, suspension, and tyres. Traction control, launch control, automatic shifting, and other electronic driving aids were first banned in 1994. They were briefly reintroduced in 2001 but were banned once more in 2004 and later 2008.
The cost cap as of the 2026 season stands at US$215 million, but the actual total cost of running an F1 team often exceeds that due to exclusions outside the cost cap. It is because of this that Formula One's financial and political battles are widely reported. The United Kingdom is the hub of Formula One racing, with six out of the eleven teams based there.

Title: List of Formula One World Drivers' Champions
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Formula_One_World_Drivers%27_Champions
Summary: The World Drivers' Championship is presented by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), motorsport's world governing body, to the most successful driver over the course of the season of Formula One races, through a points system based on individual race results. The World Championship is awarded at the FIA Prize Giving Ceremony after the season.
Michael Schumacher and Lewis Hamilton hold the record for the most World Drivers' championships—seven—trailed by Juan Manuel Fangio with five. Schumacher holds the record for the most consecutive titles: five, from the 2000 to 2004 seasons. Nigel Mansell competed in the most seasons before winning the title: 13; he entered Formula One in 1980 and won the title in 1992. Nico Rosberg has the highest number of Grand Prix starts before winning his first title: 206, from the 2006 Bahrain and the 2016 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. Sebastian Vettel is the youngest champion; he was 23 years and 134 days old when he won in 2010. Juan Manuel Fangio is the oldest; he was 46 years and 41 days old when he won the 1957 title.
As of the 2026 season, the 76 titles have been won by 35 of the 782 drivers who have started a Grand Prix. The first champion was Giuseppe Farina, in 1950; the current title holder is Lando Norris in the 2025 season. The title has been won by 11 drivers from the United Kingdom a total of 21 times, more than any other nation, followed by Brazil, Finland, and Germany with three drivers each. The title has been won by drivers from Scuderia Ferrari 15 times between 9 drivers, more than any other team, followed by McLaren with 13 titles between 8 drivers. The  championship has been won in the final race of the season 31 times in the 76 seasons it has been awarded. Schumacher won the championship with six races left in a season, a record: the 2002 title at that year's French Grand Prix. The points system has twice crowned a champion—John Surtees in 1964 and Ayrton Senna in 1988—who scored fewer points overall than the driver who finished second. Max Verstappen won the 2023 title with 290 points more than the second-place Sergio Pérez, a record, while Niki Lauda won the 1984 title with the closest gap: 0.5 points over Alain Prost.

Title: List of Formula One World Constructors' Champions
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Formula_One_World_Constructors%27_Champions
Summary: Formula One (F1) is the highest class of open-wheeled motorsport defined by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), motorsport's world governing body. The "formula" in the name refers to a set of rules to which all participants and cars must conform. The F1 World Championship season consists of a series of races, known as Grands Prix, held usually on purpose-built circuits, and in a few cases on closed city streets. The World Constructors' Championship is presented by the FIA to the most successful F1 constructor over the course of the season through a points system based on individual Grand Prix results. Constructors' Championship points are calculated by adding points scored in each race by any driver for that constructor. According to FIA regulations, the constructor of a chassis and an engine of a Formula One car is a person or corporate entity that owns the intellectual rights to the chassis and the engine of the car that a team/entrant enters into a competition.
From the inaugural season of the World Constructors' Championship in 1958 up until the 1978 season only the highest-scoring driver in each race for each constructor contributed points towards the World Constructors' Championship (then officially as the International Cup for Formula One Constructors); since the 1979 season points from all cars entered by each constructor have counted towards their championship total. The Constructors' Championship is won when it is no longer mathematically possible for another constructor to overtake another's points total regardless of the outcome of the remaining races, although it is not officially awarded until the FIA Prize Giving Ceremony held in various cities following the conclusion of the season.
The Constructors' Championship was first awarded, as the International Cup for Formula One Manufacturers, in 1958 to Vanwall. In 1981 this name was officially changed to the World Constructors' Championship. The makes of both chassis and an engine are included in the constructor name.
Out of the 170 chassis constructors that have entered an F1 Grand Prix, a total of 15 have won the Championship in its 68 seasons. Ferrari holds the record for the highest number of World Constructors' Championships victories, having won the title on 16 occasions. McLaren are in second position with ten Constructors' Championships. Williams are in third position with nine Constructors' Championships and Mercedes are in fourth with eight titles. With 16 titles, Ferrari has amassed the highest number of Constructors' Championships as an engine manufacturer, followed by Renault, Mercedes, Ford and Honda with twelve, twelve, ten and six titles, respectively. Mercedes holds the record for the most consecutive constructors' titles with eight between the 2014 and the 2021 seasons. 
All but 17 titles (16 titles won by Italian-built Ferrari chassis and 1 title won by French-built Matra chassis) have been won by chassis that were designed and constructed in the United Kingdom. On twelve occasions, the World Constructors' Champion team has not contained the World Drivers' Champion for that season. All titles but one  (in 1969 Matra cars were entered by Ken Tyrrell's privateer team Matra International) have been won by cars that were entered by works teams. Among drivers that have contributed with at least a single point to the constructors' title, Lewis Hamilton has contributed to the most with eight constructors' titles, all of them with Mercedes.

Title: 2026 Formula One World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Formula_One_World_Championship
Summary: The 2026 FIA Formula One World Championship is a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and the 77th running of the Formula One World Championship. It is recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the governing body of international motorsport, as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. The championship is contested over twenty-two Grands Prix held around the world. It began in March and is scheduled to end in December. Drivers and teams compete for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion, respectively. Lando Norris is the reigning World Drivers' Champion, while McLaren-Mercedes are the reigning World Constructors' Champions.
The 2026 season features a major set of regulation changes with a revised power unit configuration and new active aerodynamics along with the addition of an eleventh team competing for the first time since 2016. Audi, who acquired Sauber in 2024, enter as a works team with its own power unit, while Cadillac are making their debut in the championship using Ferrari power units. Honda, through its Honda Racing Corporation subsidiary, entered into an exclusive works team agreement with Aston Martin, and are supplying them with their own power unit after ending its relationship with Red Bull Racing. Ford returned to the sport for the first time since 2004, supporting Red Bull Powertrains in supplying power units to Red Bull Racing and Racing Bulls. Renault is no longer an engine supplier as Alpine switched to Mercedes power units.

Title: 2024 Formula One World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Formula_One_World_Championship
Summary: The 2024 FIA Formula One World Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and was the 75th running of the Formula One World Championship. It was recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the governing body of international motorsport, as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. The championship was contested over a record twenty-four Grands Prix held around the world.
Drivers and teams competed for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion, respectively. Defending Drivers' Champion Max Verstappen of Red Bull Racing dominated the opening 10 races with seven wins, however the season as a whole was highly competitive with a record-making six other drivers claiming multiple Grand Prix victories. McLaren driver Lando Norris emerged as Verstappen's closest competitor as the MCL38 began to consistently outperform the RB20. Verstappen maintained his points advantage to win his fourth consecutive Drivers' Championship title at the Las Vegas Grand Prix. Verstappen's title made him only third drivers' champion after Keke Rosberg in 1982 and Nelson Piquet in 1983 to win the drivers' championship with a team that finished 3rd or lower in the constructors' championship, and the second driver after Piquet to win the drivers' championship in a team that did not become constructors' champions on two or more occasions. McLaren surpassed Red Bull and went on to achieve their ninth Constructors' Championship title at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, narrowly ahead of Ferrari by just 14 points. With their first Constructors' Championship victory in 26 years, McLaren became the first constructor other than Red Bull and Mercedes to win the title since Brawn in 2009.