Title: Serena Williams
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serena_Williams
Summary: Serena Jameka Williams (born September 26, 1981) is an American professional tennis player. She was ranked as the world No. 1 in women's singles by the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) for 319 weeks (third-most of all time), and finished as the year-end No. 1 five times. Williams won 73 WTA Tour–level singles titles, including 23 major women's singles titles—the most in the Open Era, and the second-most of all time. She is the only player to accomplish a Career Golden Slam in both singles and doubles, and the only player to have simultaneously held Olympic gold and all four major titles in both singles and doubles.
Along with her elder sister Venus, Serena Williams was coached by her parents Oracene Price and Richard Williams. Turning professional in 1995, she won her first major singles title at the 1999 US Open. From the 2002 French Open to the 2003 Australian Open she was dominant, winning all four major singles titles consecutively (each time over Venus in the final) to achieve a non-calendar year Grand Slam (nicknamed the "Serena Slam"). After injuries, Williams returned to dominance in 2012, claiming Olympic gold (completing the career Golden Slam in singles) and winning eight out of thirteen singles majors, including all four in a row in 2014–2015 to achieve a second "Serena Slam". At the 2017 Australian Open, she won her 23rd major singles title, surpassing Steffi Graf's Open Era record. 
Williams also won 23 WTA Tour-level doubles titles, including 14 major women's doubles championships, all with her sister Venus. The pair was undefeated in major doubles finals, earning the best unbeaten record in major finals in any discipline of the sport. The sisters achieved a non-calendar year Grand Slam between the 2009 Wimbledon Championships and the 2010 French Open. Williams won four Olympic gold medals, three in women's doubles—an all-time joint record in tennis, shared with her sister. The duo are the only women in the Open Era to win Olympic gold in both singles and doubles. Williams also won two mixed doubles majors, both in 1998. She is the only player, male or female, to complete three career Golden Slams—one in women's singles and two in women's doubles. In 2020, the Tennis Channel ranked her as the greatest women's tennis player of all time.

Title: Women's professional sports
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Women%27s_professional_sports
Summary: Women's professional sports are a relatively new phenomenon, having largely emerged within the latter part of the 20th century. Unlike amateur female athletes, professional female athletes are able to acquire an income which allows them to earn a living without requiring another source of income. In international terms, most top female athletes are not paid and work full-time or part-time jobs in addition to their training, practice, and competition schedules. Professional organizations for women in sport are most common in developed countries where there are investors available to buy teams and businesses which can afford to sponsor them in exchange for publicity and the opportunity to promote a variety of their products. Very few governments support professional sports, male or female. Today there are a number of professional women's sport leagues in the United States and Canada.

Title: Íþróttafélag Reykjavíkur
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%8D%C3%BEr%C3%B3ttaf%C3%A9lag_Reykjav%C3%ADkur
Summary: Íþróttafélag Reykjavíkur (Icelandic pronunciation: [ˈiːˌθrouhtaˌfjɛːˌlaːɣ ˈreiːcaˌviːkʏr̥], lit. 'Reykjavik Sports Club'), commonly known as ÍR, is an Icelandic multi-sport club, based in the suburb of Breiðholt in Reykjavík. It has teams in football, handball, basketball, athletics, tenpin bowling, skiing, karate, taekwondo and judo.

Title: Anna Hall (heptathlete)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anna_Hall_(heptathlete)
Summary: Anna Hall Slayton (born March 23, 2001) is an American athlete specializing in the combined events. She is the reigning World Champion in heptathlon, having won the title at the 2025 World Championships.
She won the silver medal in the heptathlon at the 2023 World Championships and the bronze medal at the 2022 World Championships. Hall is the North American indoor record holder for the pentathlon.
Her heptathlon and pentathlon best scores place her joint second and fourth on the respective world all-time lists. She is the only woman to break 6700 points in the heptathlon and run under 55 seconds in the 400 meters hurdles. Hall also has a 50.82 s personal best in the 400 meters. She is a three-time U.S. national champion and won two NCAA Division I titles representing the University of Florida.

Title: List of most expensive women's association football transfers
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_expensive_women%27s_association_football_transfers
Summary: The following is a list of the most expensive women's association football transfers, which details the highest transfer fees ever paid for players, as well as transfers which set new world transfer records.
The first transfer in women's football reported as a record was that of Milene Domingues from Fiammamonza to Rayo Vallecano in 2002, two decades before professionalism in Spanish women's football. The current transfer record was set by the transfer of Grace Geyoro from Paris Saint-Germain to London City Lionesses for £1.43 million in September 2025 as they began their first season in the English top-flight Women's Super League.
The most expensive transfer to a team not in the top tier is the €300,000 potential total fee for the transfer of Julia Torres from Sevilla to Barcelona B set in March 2026; also the highest transfer fee between two Spanish teams at the time it was agreed, the total fee includes bonuses contingent on Torres ultimately playing for Barcelona's first team. The only known transfer fee for a player not in the top two flights was paid for Weronika Araśniewicz of Barcelona C when VfL Wolfsburg exercised their purchase option in July 2026, though Araśniewicz was signed to join their first team in the top tier.
In 2020, the Spanish then-Primera División introduced its Compensation List, a means for signatory clubs to retain the rights of under-23 players whose contracts had expired until another Spanish club paid a fee set by the owning club. Intended to compensate the costs of youth development, the fees were instead set disproportionately high for the global and internal market (all requests would have been records); unable to find new clubs in Spain, the players named on the Compensation List either stayed at clubs that did not wish to play them or moved abroad, with the list scrapped by the end of the year without having facilitated a transfer.
Later that year, the USA's National Women's Soccer League introduced allocation money, giving its constituent clubs options to make fee-involved trades and exchange the allocation money credits for the NWSL to purchase players from other leagues. The NWSL began phasing out allocation money in 2024, with an aim to stop its use by 2026, as part of its measures to shift to a more international transfer system and in recognition of other leagues financially outpacing it.