Title: Zhong Kui
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zhong_Kui
Summary: Zhong Kui (Chinese: 鍾馗; pinyin: Zhōng Kuí, in Japanese: Shōki) is a Taoist deity in Chinese mythology, traditionally regarded as a vanquisher of ghosts and evil beings. He is depicted as a large man with a big black beard, bulging eyes, and a wrathful expression. Zhong Kui is able to command 80,000 demons to do his bidding and is often associated with the five bats of fortune.  Worship and iconography of Zhong Kui later spread to other East Asian countries.
In art, Zhong Kui is a frequent subject in paintings and crafts, and his image is often painted on household gates as a guardian spirit as well as in places of business where high-value goods are involved. He is also commonly portrayed in popular media.

Title: CMG Spring Festival Gala
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CMG_Spring_Festival_Gala
Summary: The CMG Spring Festival Gala (formerly known as the CCTV New Year's Gala; commonly abbreviated in Chinese as Chunwan or 春晚) is a Chinese New Year special gala produced by China Media Group (CMG). The Gala is a live variety show featuring music, dance, and comedy performances alongside official messaging, held annually on Chinese New Year's Eve since it was first aired in February 1983. It was recognized by Guinness World Records as the most watched national network TV broadcast in 2012 and is widely recognized as the world's most watched television program.

Title: Golden Rooster Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_Rooster_Awards
Summary: The Golden Rooster Awards (Chinese: 金鸡奖; pinyin: Jīnjī Jiǎng) are annual film awards given in mainland China. Established in 1981, the awards are co-sponsored by the China Film Association and the China Federation of Literary and Art Circles.
The name of the award came from the year of the Rooster in 1981. Award recipients receive a statuette in the shape of a golden rooster, and are selected by a jury of filmmakers, film experts, and film historians. The awards are the Chinese equivalent to the American Academy Awards.
Originally, Golden Roosters were only available to mainland Chinese nominees, but in 2005, the awards opened up the acting categories to actors from Taiwan, Hong Kong, and elsewhere in an effort to compete with Taiwan's Golden Horse Awards. Films in the past two years are eligible for the Golden Rooster awards since 2007.
The Golden Rooster and Hundred Flowers Awards have taken place on alternate years since 2005, with the Golden Rooster taking place on odd years. In 1992, the Golden Rooster and the Hundred Flowers Awards were combined into a single national festival.

Title: Eunuchs in China
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eunuchs_in_China
Summary: A eunuch ( YOO-nək) is a man who has been castrated. Throughout history, castration often served a specific social function. In China, castration included removal of the penis as well as the testicles (see emasculation). Both organs were cut off with a knife at the same time.
Eunuchs existed in the Chinese court starting around 146 AD during the reign of Emperor Huan of Han, and were common as civil servants as early as the time of the Qin dynasty. From those ancient times until the Sui dynasty, castration was both a traditional punishment (one of the Five Punishments) and a means of gaining employment in the Imperial service. Certain eunuchs gained immense power that occasionally superseded that of even the Grand Secretaries, such as the Ming dynasty official Zheng He. Self-castration was a common practice, although it was not always performed completely, which led to it being made illegal.
It is said that the justification for the employment of eunuchs as high-ranking civil servants was that, since they were incapable of having children, they would not be tempted to seize power and start a dynasty. In many cases, eunuchs were considered more reliable than the scholar-officials. As a symbolic assignment of heavenly authority to the palace system, a constellation of stars was designated as the Emperor's, and, to the west of it, four stars were identified as his "eunuchs."
The tension between eunuchs in the service of the emperor and virtuous Confucian officials is a familiar theme in Chinese history. In his History of Government, Samuel Finer points out that reality was not always that clear-cut. There were instances of very capable eunuchs who were valuable advisers to their emperor, and the resistance of the "virtuous" officials often stemmed from jealousy on their part. Ray Huang argues that in reality, eunuchs represented the personal will of the Emperor, while the officials represented the alternative political will of the bureaucracy. The clash between them would thus have been a clash of ideologies or political agenda.
The number of eunuchs in Imperial employ fell to 470 by 1912, with the eunuch system being abolished on 5 November 1924. The last Imperial eunuch, Sun Yaoting, died in December 1996.

Title: Zhang Jiayi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zhang_Jiayi
Summary: Zhang Jiayi (Chinese: 张嘉益; born 8 April 1970) is a Chinese actor. He rose to fame with his role in Dwelling Narrowness (2009). In 2014, he became the fourth Chinese actor to achieve the television "Grand Slam", having won Best Actor at China’s three most prestigious television awards, the Feitian Award, the Golden Eagle Award and the Magnolia Award.