Title: Korean War
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Korean_War
Summary: The Korean War (25 June 1950 – 27 July 1953) was an armed conflict fought on the Korean Peninsula between North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea; DPRK) and South Korea (Republic of Korea; ROK) and their allies. North Korea was supported by China and the Soviet Union, while South Korea was supported by the United Nations led by the United States under the auspices of the United Nations Command (UNC).
After the end of World War II in 1945, Korea, which had been a Japanese colony for 35 years, was divided by the Soviet Union and the United States into two occupation zones at the 38th parallel, with plans for a future independent state. The zones formed their own governments in 1948 due to political disagreements. North Korea was led by Kim Il Sung in Pyongyang, and South Korea by Syngman Rhee in Seoul; both claimed to be the sole legitimate government of all of Korea.
Both sides engaged in extensive border clashes while Rhee's government suppressed communist uprisings at Jeju and Yeosu-Suncheon. On 25 June 1950, North Korea's Korean People's Army (KPA) launched an invasion of South Korea. In the absence of the Soviet Union's representative, the UN Security Council denounced the invasion, calling on member states to help repel the invasion. UN forces under the unified command comprised 21 countries, with the US providing around 90% of military personnel. On 27 June 1950 President Harry S. Truman ordered US air and sea forces to aid South Korea.
Seoul was captured by the KPA on 28 June, and by early August, the Republic of Korea Army (ROKA) and its allies were nearly defeated, holding onto only the Pusan Perimeter in the peninsula's southeast. On 15 September, UN forces landed at Inchon near Seoul, cutting off KPA troops and supply lines. UN forces broke out from the perimeter on 18 September, recaptured Seoul, and invaded North Korea in October, capturing Pyongyang and advancing towards the Yalu River (border with China). On 19 October, the Chinese People's Volunteer Army (PVA) crossed the Yalu and entered the war on the side of the North. UN forces retreated from North Korea in December, following the PVA's first and second offensive. Communist forces captured Seoul again in January 1951 before losing it to a UN counter-offensive two months later. After an abortive Chinese spring offensive, UN forces retook territory roughly up to the 38th parallel. Armistice negotiations began in July 1951, but dragged on as the fighting became a war of attrition and the North suffered devastating damage from UN bombing, destroying virtually all of North Korea's major cities.
Combat ended on 27 July 1953 with the signing of the Korean Armistice Agreement, which allowed the exchange of prisoners and created a 4-kilometre wide (2.5 mile) Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) along the frontline, with a Joint Security Area at Panmunjom. The industrial warfare was defined by armored offensives, with the North's initial invasion and later by UN forces, tunnel warfare by Chinese forces, and the first large jet aircraft battles. The conflict caused around one million military deaths and an estimated 1.5 million to 3 million civilian deaths. Alleged war crimes include the mass killing of alleged communists by South Korea, the Seoul National University Hospital massacre by North Korea, and the carpet bombing of North Korea by the UNC. North Korea became one of the most heavily bombed countries in history. No peace treaty has been signed; the Korean conflict remains a frozen conflict, which has occasionally flared, such as in the 1966–1969 DMZ Conflict.

Title: Prime Minister of India
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_India
Summary: The prime minister of India (ISO: Bhāratīya Gaṇarājyasya Pradhānamantrī) is the head of government of the Republic of India. Executive authority is vested in the prime minister and his chosen Council of Ministers, despite the President of India being the nominal head of the executive.  The prime minister has to be a member of one of the houses of bicameral Parliament of India, alongside heading the respective house. The prime minister and the cabinet are at all times responsible to the Lok Sabha, the lower house of the Parliament.
The sitting prime minister ranks third in the Order of Precedence of India and is appointed by the president of India; however, the prime minister has to enjoy the confidence of the majority of Lok Sabha members, who are directly elected every five years, lest the prime minister shall resign. The prime minister can be a member of the Lok Sabha or the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of the parliament. The prime minister controls the selection and dismissal of members of the Union Council of Ministers and allocation of posts to members within the government.
The longest-serving prime minister was the first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, whose tenure lasted 16 years and 286 days. His premiership was followed by Lal Bahadur Shastri's short tenure and Indira Gandhi's 11- and 4-year-long tenures, with both politicians belonging to the Indian National Congress. After Indira Gandhi's assassination, her son Rajiv Gandhi took charge until 1989, when a decade with five unstable governments began. This was followed by the full terms of P. V. Narasimha Rao, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Manmohan Singh, and Narendra Modi, who is the current prime minister of India, serving since 26 May 2014. He is the first non-Congress leader to become PM after  consecutive general elections and secure a third successive term (2014, 2019, 2024). The first prime minister to do so was Jawaharlal Nehru, who secured successive terms following the victory in the general elections of 1946, 1952, 1957, and 1962.

Title: List of prime ministers of Canada
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_prime_ministers_of_Canada
Summary: The prime minister of Canada is the official who serves as the primary minister of the Crown, chair of the Cabinet, and thus head of government of Canada. Twenty-four people (twenty-three men and one woman) have served as prime minister. Officially, the prime minister is appointed by the governor general of Canada, but by constitutional convention, the prime minister must have the confidence of the elected House of Commons. Normally, this is the leader of the party caucus with the greatest number of seats in the house. However, in a minority parliament the leader of an opposition party may be asked to form a government if the incumbent government resigns and the governor general is persuaded that they have the confidence of the House. 
By constitutional convention, a prime minister holds a seat in parliament and, since the early 20th century, this has more specifically meant the House of Commons.
The 24th and current prime minister is Mark Carney, who assumed office on 14 March 2025. There are currently six living former prime ministers. The most recent former prime minister to die was Brian Mulroney, on 29 February 2024.

Title: Mark Carney
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Carney
Summary: Mark Joseph Carney (born March 16, 1965) is a Canadian politician, economist, and banker who is the 24th prime minister of Canada and leader of the Liberal Party, serving since 2025. Carney is the member of Parliament (MP) for Nepean since his election in April 2025. He was previously Governor of the Bank of Canada from 2008 to 2013 and Governor of the Bank of England from 2013 to 2020.
Carney was born in Fort Smith, Northwest Territories, and raised in Edmonton, Alberta. He graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics from Harvard University in 1987, and earned a master's degree in 1993 and a doctorate in 1995 from the University of Oxford, both in economics. Carney worked at Goldman Sachs for 13 years before joining the Bank of Canada in 2003 as a deputy governor. In 2004, he joined the Department of Finance Canada as a senior associate deputy minister. Carney served as the eighth governor of the Bank of Canada from 2008 to 2013. As governor, he oversaw Canadian monetary policy during the 2008 global financial crisis. He was appointed as the second chair of the Financial Stability Board in 2011, serving for two terms until 2018. After his term as Governor of the Bank of Canada, Carney was appointed as the 120th governor of the Bank of England, becoming the first non-British incumbent. He served from 2013 to 2020, leading the central bank's responses to Brexit and the early phase of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Following his governorship, Carney held several roles in the private and public sectors. He served as chair of Bloomberg L.P., vice-chair at Brookfield Asset Management, and co-chair of the World Bank's private sector investment lab. He was the United Nations Secretary-General's Special Envoy on Climate Action and Finance from 2020. He was an informal advisor to Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, before returning to the private sector. After Trudeau announced his resignation in 2025, Carney won the Liberal Party leadership election in a landslide victory. The first prime minister never to have held elected office, Carney then advised the governor general to dissolve Parliament and trigger a federal election. In that election, he led the Liberals to a minority government—overturning previous poor opinion polling to win the party's fourth consecutive mandate since 2015—and was elected to represent the riding of Nepean in the House of Commons. A year later, Carney's Liberals formed a majority government as a result of opposition MPs crossing the floor and by-election victories.
During his tenure as prime minister, Carney removed the federal consumer carbon tax, enacted the One Canadian Economy Act in response to a trade war started by the United States, launched the Build Canada Homes agency, and introduced the Canada Groceries and Essentials Benefit. Carney's government oversaw a sharp increase in defence spending, formally recognized the State of Palestine, improved relations with China and with India, and has continued support for Ukraine in the Russo-Ukrainian war. Carney is ideologically characterized as a centrist, technocrat, and a Blue Grit Liberal; as prime minister, he has moved the Liberals towards the political centre.

Title: Lee Jae Myung
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae_Myung
Summary: Lee Jae Myung (Korean: 이재명; pronounced [i.dʑɛ.mjʌŋ]; born c. 8 December 1963) is a South Korean politician and lawyer who has served as the 14th president of South Korea since 2025. A member of the Democratic Party of Korea (DPK), he was the party's leader while serving as member of the National Assembly for Incheon Gyeyang B from 2022 to 2025. Lee previously served as governor of Gyeonggi from 2018 to 2021 and as mayor of Seongnam from 2010 to 2018.
Born into a poor family in Andong, instead of attending middle school, Lee began working at a Seongnam factory at an early age. There, an accident left him disabled. He earned middle and high school equivalency diplomas and graduated from Chung-Ang University with a law degree in 1986. As a human rights and labor lawyer, Lee worked with Minbyun to organize efforts advocating for opening a new hospital in Seongnam.
Lee entered politics in 2005 and ran in several elections without success. He was elected mayor of Seongnam in 2010 and re-elected in 2014. In 2017, he sought the DPK's presidential nomination but lost to Moon Jae-in. Lee resigned as mayor of Seongnam in 2018 to run for governor of Gyeonggi Province, won that race, and served until 2021. In 2022, he won his party's presidential nomination and narrowly lost the general election to Yoon Suk Yeol of the People Power Party (PPP).
Lee survived an assassination attempt in January 2024. In November, he was convicted under the Public Official Election Act for falsely denying a connection to Kim Moon-ki, a former Seongnam Development Corporation executive, during his 2022 presidential campaign. During the 2024 martial law crisis instigated by President Yoon Suk Yeol, Lee drew international attention after climbing over the National Assembly building fence and livestreaming the event. He helped lead the impeachment of Yoon Suk Yeol, which led to the Constitutional Court of Korea removing Yoon from office. In the aftermath of Yoon's removal, Lee launched a third presidential bid in 2025, won the DPK nomination, and defeated the PPP candidate Kim Moon-soo in the presidential election.