Title: Real Madrid CF
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_Madrid_CF
Summary: Real Madrid Club de Fútbol (Spanish pronunciation: [reˈal maˈðɾið ˈkluβ ðe ˈfuðβol] ) is a Spanish professional association football club based in Madrid. The club competes in La Liga, the top tier of Spanish football.
Founded in 1902 as Madrid Football Club, the club has traditionally worn a white home kit. The honorific title 'Real' is Spanish for "Royal" and was bestowed by Alfonso XIII in 1920. Real Madrid have played their home matches in the Bernabéu since 1947. Unlike most European sporting clubs, Real Madrid's members have owned and operated the club throughout its history. The club is one of the most widely supported in the world and the most followed sports club across social media. It was estimated to be worth $6.6 billion in 2024, making it the world's most valuable football club. In 2024, it became the first football club to make €1 billion ($1.08bn) in revenue. The club anthem is the "Hala Madrid y nada más".
Real Madrid is one of the most successful football clubs in the world and the most decorated club in Europe. In Spanish domestic football, the club has won 71 trophies; a record 36 La Liga titles, 20 Copa del Rey, 13 Supercopa de España, a Copa Eva Duarte and a Copa de la Liga. In International football, Real Madrid have won a record 35 trophies: a record 15 European Cup/UEFA Champions League titles, a record six UEFA Super Cups, two UEFA Cups, a joint-record two Latin Cups, a record one Iberoamerican Cup, and a record nine world championships. Madrid has been ranked joint first a record number of times in the IFFHS Club World Ranking. In UEFA's club ranking, Madrid ranks first in the all-time club ranking.
As one of the three founding members of La Liga never relegated from the top division along with Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao, Real Madrid has many long-standing rivalries, most notably El Clásico with Barcelona and El Derbi Madrileño with Atlético Madrid. The club established itself as a major force in Spanish and European football during the 1950s and 60s, winning five consecutive and six overall European Cups. This success was replicated on the domestic front, with Madrid winning 12 league titles in 16 years. This team, which included Alfredo Di Stéfano, Ferenc Puskás, Paco Gento and Raymond Kopa, is considered by some in the sport to be the greatest of all time. Real Madrid is known for its Galácticos policy, which involves signing the world's best players, such as Ronaldo, Zinedine Zidane and David Beckham to create a superstar team. In 2009, Madrid signed Cristiano Ronaldo for a record-breaking £80 million (€94 million) from Manchester United; he became the club's and history's all-time top goal-scorer. In addition to signing star players, Real Madrid develops homegrown talent through its academy, La Fábrica, which has produced notable graduates such as Raúl, Iker Casillas, and Dani Carvajal, and has supplied the highest number of players to Europe's top five leagues.
Real Madrid was recognized as the greatest football club of the 20th century, receiving the FIFA Centennial Order of Merit in 2004. Real Madrid has the highest number of participations in the European Cup/UEFA Champions League (55), a tournament in which they hold the records for most wins, draws and goals scored. Real Madrid is the only club to have won three consecutive titles in the European Cup/UEFA Champions League twice, achieving this in 1956-58 and 2016-18. In 2024, they won a record-extending 15th Champions League title (the sixth in eleven seasons), recognized as such by Guinness World Records. Real Madrid is the first club across all Europe's top-five leagues to win 100 trophies in all competitions. As of May 2026, Real Madrid are ranked 2nd in UEFA club rankings, and first over 2013–23 coefficient.

Title: Real Madrid Baloncesto
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_Madrid_Baloncesto
Summary: Real Madrid Baloncesto is a Spanish professional basketball club that was founded in 1931, as a division of Real Madrid CF. They play domestically in the Liga ACB, and internationally in the EuroLeague. They are widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball clubs in Europe. Real Madrid currently ranks second in the European professional basketball club rankings.
Similarly to the Real Madrid athletic association football club, the basketball team has been the most successful of its peers in both Spain and Europe. Real Madrid CF is the only European sports club to have become the European champions in both football and basketball in the same season (2018).
The Real Madrid squads have won a record 38 Spanish League championships, including in 7-in-a-row and 10-in-a-row sequences. They have also won a record 29 Spanish Cup titles, a record 11 EuroLeague Championships, a record 4 Saporta Cups, and a record 5 Intercontinental Cups. Madrid has also won 3 Triple Crowns, which constitute a treble of the national league, cup, and continental league won in a single season. Some of the club's star players over the years have included: Carmelo Cabrera, Arvydas Sabonis, Dražen Petrović, Rudy Fernández, Sergio Rodriguez, Sergio Llull, Felipe Reyes, Serge Ibaka, Mirza Delibašić, Dražen Dalipagić, Nikola Mirotić, Juan Antonio Corbalán, Fernando Martín, Alberto Herreros, Dejan Bodiroga, Luka Dončić, Edy Tavares, Facundo Campazzo, Džanan Musa and Mario Hezonja.
Real Madrid also has a developmental basketball team, called Real Madrid B, that plays in the amateur-level Spanish 4th-tier Liga EBA.

Title: List of Real Madrid CF records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Real_Madrid_CF_records_and_statistics
Summary: Real Madrid Club de Fútbol is a Spanish professional association football club based in Madrid. The club was formed in 1902 as Madrid Football Club, and played its first competitive match on 13 May 1902, in the Copa de la Coronación semi-final. Real Madrid currently plays in the Spanish top-tier La Liga, having become one of the founding members of that league in 1929, and is one of three clubs, the others being Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao, to have never been relegated from the league. They have also been involved in European football ever since they became the first Spanish club to enter the European Cup in 1955, except for the 1977–78 and 1996–97 seasons.
This list encompasses the major honours won by Real Madrid and records set by the club, their managers and their players. The player records section includes details of the club's leading goalscorers and those who have made most appearances in first team competitions. It also records notable achievements by Real Madrid players on the international stage, and the highest transfer fees paid and received by the club.
The club currently holds the record for the most European Cup / UEFA Champions League triumphs, with 15, and the most La Liga titles, with 36. Additionally, Real has won the Copa del Rey 20 times, the Supercopa de España 13 times, the Copa de la Liga once, the Copa Eva Duarte once, the UEFA Cup twice, the European/UEFA Super Cup six times, the Intercontinental Cup three times, the FIFA Intercontinental Cup one time, the FIFA Club World Cup five times, the Latin Cup twice and Copa Iberoamericana once. Powered by its fifteen European Cups, Real Madrid have a distinction of being the most successful club in terms of international titles, having amassed 35 pieces of silverware, more than any other team in the world. On the domestic front, its 71 titles rank second to Barcelona. The club's record appearance maker is Raúl, who made 741 appearances from 1994 to 2010; the club's record goalscorer is Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo, who scored 450 goals in 438 appearances through all competitions from 2009 to 2018.

Title: 2025–26 Real Madrid CF season
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025%E2%80%9326_Real_Madrid_CF_season
Summary: The 2025–26 season was Real Madrid Club de Fútbol's 122nd season in existence and the club's 95th consecutive season in the top flight of Spanish football. In addition to the domestic league, Real Madrid participated in this season's editions of the Copa del Rey, the Supercopa de España and the UEFA Champions League.
This season was the first since 2011–12 without Luka Modrić, as well as the first since 2014–15 without youth graduate Lucas Vázquez, who both departed as free agents, to AC Milan and Bayer Leverkusen, respectively.

Title: 2026–27 Real Madrid CF season
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026%E2%80%9327_Real_Madrid_CF_season
Summary: The 2026–27 season is Real Madrid Club de Fútbol's 123rd season in existence and the club's 96th consecutive season in the top flight of Spanish football. In addition to the domestic league, Real Madrid is participating in this season's editions of the Copa del Rey, the Supercopa de España and the UEFA Champions League.
This season is the first since 2012–13 without youth graduate and captain Dani Carvajal, as well as the first since 2020–21 without David Alaba, both of whom departed as free agents.
The departure of Carvajal marked the end of the club's association with the last remaining player from the squad that won the UEFA Champions League in three consecutive seasons, in 2016, 2017 and 2018 respectively.