Title: FC Porto
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FC_Porto
Summary: Futebol Clube do Porto, MHIH, OM (Portuguese pronunciation: [futɨˈβɔl ˈkluβɨ ðu ˈpoɾtu]), commonly known as FC Porto, or simply Porto, is a Portuguese professional sports club based in Porto. It is best known for the professional football team playing in the Primeira Liga, the top flight of Portuguese football.
Founded on 28 September 1893, Porto is one of the "Big Three" clubs in Portugal that have never been relegated from Primeira Liga, along with Lisbon-based rivals Benfica and Sporting CP. FC Porto are nicknamed dragões (Dragons), for the mythical creature atop the club's crest, and Azuis e brancos (Blue-and-whites), for the shirt colours. Those colours are in stripes with blue shorts. The club supporters are called portistas. Since 2003, Porto have played their home matches at the Estádio do Dragão, which replaced the previous 51-year-old ground, the Estádio das Antas.
With a total of 88 major trophies, Porto is the most successful club in Portuguese football. Domestically, these include 31 Portuguese league titles (five of which won consecutively between 1994–95 and 1998–99, a Portuguese football record), 20 Taça de Portugal, 4 Campeonato de Portugal, 1 Taça da Liga and a record 25 Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira. Porto is one of two teams to have won the league title without defeats, in the 2010–11 and 2012–13 seasons. In the former, Porto achieved the largest-ever difference of points between champion and runner-up in a three-points-per-win system (21 points), on their way to a second quadruple.
In international competitions, Porto is the most decorated Portuguese team, with seven trophies. They won the European Cup/UEFA Champions League in 1987 and 2004, the UEFA Cup/Europa League in 2003 and 2011, the UEFA Super Cup in 1987, and the Intercontinental Cup in 1987 and 2004. In addition, they were runners-up in the 1983–84 European Cup Winners' Cup, plus the 2003, 2004 and 2011 editions of the UEFA Super Cup. Porto is the only Portuguese club to have won the UEFA Cup/Europa League, the UEFA Super Cup, the Intercontinental Cup, and to have achieved a continental treble of domestic league, domestic cup and European titles (2002–03 and 2010–11). The club has the fourth-most appearances in the UEFA Champions League group/league stage (27), behind Barcelona (30), Real Madrid (30) and Bayern Munich (29), ranking 9th in the all-time club ranking of the competition. At the end of the 2024–25 season, they ranked 18th in the UEFA club coefficient ranking.

Title: FC Porto B
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FC_Porto_B
Summary: Futebol Clube do Porto B, commonly known as Porto B, is a Portuguese professional football team, which serves as the reserve side of FC Porto. They compete in the Liga Portugal 2, the second division of Portuguese football, and play their home matches at the CTFD PortoGaia main pitch.
As a reserve side, the team cannot compete in the same division as their senior team, thus being ineligible for promotion to the Primeira Liga. In addition, they cannot participate in other domestic cup competitions, such as the Taça de Portugal and Taça da Liga.
Domestically, Porto B are the first and only reserve side to have won the second division title, after a successful campaign in the 2015–16 season. Internationally, the team is the record holder of the Premier League International Cup competition, after two wins in the 2016–17 and 2017–18 editions.

Title: Grêmio FBPA
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gr%C3%AAmio_FBPA
Summary: Grêmio Foot-Ball Porto Alegrense (Brazilian Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈɡɾemi.u futʃiˈbɔw ˌpoʁtwaleˈɡɾẽsi]), commonly known as Grêmio, is a Brazilian professional football club based in Porto Alegre, the capital city of the Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul. The club plays in the Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, the first division of the Brazilian football league system, and the Campeonato Gaúcho, Rio Grande do Sul's top state league. The club was founded in 1903 by businessman Cândido Dias da Silva and 32 other men, mostly from the large community of German immigrants of Porto Alegre.
Grêmio's home stadium is the Arena do Grêmio, which the team moved to in 2013. With a capacity of over 55,000, the stadium is one of the most modern venues in South America and the eight-largest of its kind in Brazil. Prior to that, Grêmio played at Estádio Olímpico Monumental since 1954. Grêmio usually plays in a tricolor (blue, black, and white) striped shirt, black shorts, and white socks, which originated the team's nickname.
In 1983, Grêmio became champions of the Intercontinental Cup after defeating Hamburger SV 2–1. Additionally, Grêmio have three Copa CONMEBOL Libertadores de América.
In 2017, Grêmio was ranked first in the CBF club rankings and is listed by Forbes as the third most valuable football club in the Americas with an estimated value of $295.5 million. Grêmio has won 44 Campeonato Gaúcho, 2 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, 1 Campeonato Brasileiro Série B, 1 Supercopa do Brasil, 1 Copa Sul, and 5 Copa do Brasil. Internationally, Grêmio has won 1 Intercontinental Cup, 3 Copa Libertadores de América, 2 Recopa Sudamericana, and 1 Sanwa Bank Cup.
Grêmio has a long-standing rivalry with Internacional, known as Grenal, widely regarded as one of the fiercest in Brazil, and around the world.

Title: List of FC Porto presidents
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_FC_Porto_presidents
Summary: Futebol Clube do Porto is a Portuguese sports club based in Porto that is best known for its professional association football team competing in the country's top-tier division, the Primeira Liga. The club was founded on 28 September 1893 by António Nicolau de Almeida, its first president, and since then has had a total of 31 distinct presidents, some of which have held office in multiple occasions.
As of 7 May 2024, the current and 32nd president is former club manager André Villas-Boas. He succeeded Jorge Nuno Pinto da Costa, the club's longest-serving chairman, in office for 42 consecutive years since 1982.

Title: FC Porto (women)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FC_Porto_(women)
Summary: Futebol Clube do Porto, also referred to as FC Porto or simply Porto, is a Portuguese women's football team based in Porto, which plays in the Campeonato Nacional Feminino, the top-tier league of women's football in Portugal. Established in 2024, it represents the women's football department of sports club FC Porto. 
Their home ground is the club's training centre CTFD Jorge Costa in Olival, Vila Nova de Gaia.