Title: Indiana University Bloomington
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indiana_University_Bloomington
Summary: Indiana University Bloomington (IU Bloomington, Indiana University, IU, IUB, or Indiana) is a public research university in Bloomington, Indiana, United States. It is the flagship campus of Indiana University and is its largest campus, with over 48,000 students. Established as the state's seminary in 1820, the name was changed to "Indiana College" in 1829 and to "Indiana University" in 1838.
Indiana University is a member of the Association of American Universities and is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research spending and doctorate production". Its schools and programs include the Jacobs School of Music, Kelley School of Business, School of Education, Luddy School of Informatics, O'Neill School of Public and Environmental Affairs, School of Public Health, School of Medicine, School of Nursing, Hutton Honors College, Media School, and Maurer School of Law. The campus also features the Lilly Library, Eskenazi Museum of Art, and Indiana Memorial Union.
Indiana athletic teams compete in NCAA Division I and are known as the Indiana Hoosiers. The university is a member of the Big Ten Conference. All teams are known simply as the "Hoosiers", and the Bison mascot, also called "Hoosier", was reintroduced for the 2025 season. The Indiana Hoosiers have won 24 NCAA national championships and one Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW) national championship, in addition to 145 NCAA individual national championships. Titles won by teams include eight by the Hoosiers men's soccer team, a record-setting six straight in men's swimming and diving, five by the Hoosiers men's basketball team, three in men's cross country, one in men's track and field, one in wrestling, and one in football.

Title: University of Dallas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Dallas
Summary: The University of Dallas is a private Catholic university in Irving, Texas, United States. Established in 1956, it is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
The university comprises three academic units: the Braniff Graduate School of Liberal Arts, the Constantin College of Liberal Arts, and the Satish & Yasmin Gupta College of Business. Dallas offers several master's degree programs and a doctoral degree program with three concentrations. As of 2017, there were 136 full-time faculty and 102 part-time faculty.

Title: University of St. Thomas (Texas)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_St._Thomas_(Texas)
Summary: The University of St. Thomas (UST or St. Thomas) is a private Catholic university in Houston, Texas, United States. It was founded by the Basilian Fathers in 1947 and is the only Catholic university in the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston.

Title: Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pennsylvania_Academy_of_the_Fine_Arts
Summary: The Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts (PAFA) is a museum and private art school in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Founded in 1805, it is the longest continuously operating art museum and art school in the United States.
The academy's museum is internationally known for its collections of 19th- and 20th-century American paintings, sculptures, and works on paper. Its archives house important materials for the study of American art history, museums, and art training. It offered a Bachelor of Fine Arts, Master of Fine Arts, certificate programs, and continuing education. Beginning in 2025, the academy will cease offering degrees except bachelor's degrees in conjunction with the University of Pennsylvania.

Title: St. John's School (Texas)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._John%27s_School_(Texas)
Summary: St. John's School (also known as St. John's or SJS) is a coeducational, independent K–12 day school in Houston, Texas, United States. The School was founded in 1946 and is a member of the Houston Area Independent Schools, the Independent Schools Association of the Southwest (ISAS), and the Southwest Preparatory Conference (SPC).  Though situated adjacent to St. John the Divine church, St. John's claims no religious affiliation. For the 2025–2026 school year, tuition ranges from approximately $30,000 to $37,000.
As of June 2024, SJS's endowment is $111,800,000.