Title: Binghamton University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binghamton_University
Summary: The State University of New York at Binghamton, commonly referred to as Binghamton University (BU) or SUNY Binghamton, is a public research university in Greater Binghamton, New York, United States. The university's main campus spans 930 acres (380 ha) in the suburb of Vestal. As of fall 2025, the university enrolled 18,652 students in its six constituent schools, which offer a comprehensive range of over 130 academic programs of study.
Founded in 1946 as a branch college of Syracuse University, the school joined the State University of New York (SUNY) in 1950 to become the system's elite liberal arts college. Its designation as one of four SUNY university centers in 1965 spurred the school's evolution to a large research university. Along with sustained growth in enrollment, the university has earned perennial recognition at a national level for its high selectivity and academics,, and continually has the lowest acceptance rates and highest graduation rates among all SUNY campuses.
The university is classified among R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity. Binghamton's athletic teams are the Bearcats and they compete in Division I of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). The Bearcats are members of the America East Conference.

Title: University at Buffalo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_at_Buffalo
Summary: The State University of New York at Buffalo (commonly referred to as the University at Buffalo (UB), UBuffalo, UBuff, or sometimes SUNY Buffalo) is a public research university in Buffalo and Amherst, New York, United States. The university was founded in 1846 as a private medical college and merged with the State University of New York system in 1962. It is one of two flagship institutions of the SUNY system, along with Stony Brook University. As of fall 2023, the university enrolled nearly 32,000 students in 13 schools and colleges, making it the largest public university in the state of New York.
Since its founding by a group which included future U.S. president Millard Fillmore, the university has evolved from a small medical school to a research university. Today, in addition to the College of Arts and Sciences, the university houses the largest state-operated medical school, dental school, education school, business school, engineering school, and pharmacy school, and is also home to SUNY's only law school. UB has the largest endowment and most research funding among the universities in the SUNY system. The university offers bachelor's degrees in over 140 areas of study, as well as over 220 master's programs and over 95 doctoral programs, and 55 combined degree programs. The University at Buffalo is one of two universities founded by United States Presidents.
The University at Buffalo is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity". In 1989, UB was elected to the Association of American Universities. The University at Buffalo intercollegiate athletic teams are the Bulls. They compete in Division I of the NCAA and are members of the Mid-American Conference.

Title: State University of New York at Geneseo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_University_of_New_York_at_Geneseo
Summary: The State University of New York College at Geneseo (SUNY Geneseo, Geneseo State College or, colloquially, "Geneseo") is a public liberal arts college in Geneseo, New York, United States. It is the state's public honors college and part of the State University of New York (SUNY) system. The college was founded in 1867 as the "Wadsworth Normal and Training School" before it became part of the new State University of New York system as a state liberal arts college in 1948.

Title: State University of New York at Oneonta
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_University_of_New_York_at_Oneonta
Summary: The State University of New York at Oneonta, also known as SUNY Oneonta, is a public university in Oneonta, New York, United States. It is part of the State University of New York (SUNY) system.

Title: List of State University of New York at Cortland alumni
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_State_University_of_New_York_at_Cortland_alumni
Summary: The State University of New York at Cortland is a public university in Cortland, New York. The university was known as Cortland Normal School from 1868 to 1941, and Cortland State Teachers College from 1941 to 1961. It is also called SUNY Cortland. Following are some of its notable alumni.