Title: HTC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTC
Summary: HTC Corporation (Chinese: 宏達國際電子股份有限公司; pinyin: Hóngdá Guójì Diànzǐ Gǔfèn Yǒuxiàn Gōngsī), or High Tech Computer Corporation (abbreviated and trading as HTC), is a Taiwanese consumer electronics corporation headquartered in Taoyuan District, Taoyuan, Taiwan. Founded in 1997, HTC began as an original design manufacturer and original equipment manufacturer that designed and manufactured laptop computers.
After initially making smartphones based mostly on Windows Mobile, HTC became one of 34 cofounding members of the Open Handset Alliance, a group of handset manufacturers and mobile network operators dedicated to the development of the Android operating system. The HTC Dream (marketed by T-Mobile in many countries as the T-Mobile G1) was the first phone on the market to run Android.
Although initially successful as a smartphone vendor as it became the largest smartphone vendor in the U.S. in Q3 2011, competition from Samsung and Apple, among others, diluted its market share, which dropped to just 7.2% by April 2015, and the company has experienced consecutive net losses. In 2016, HTC began to diversify its business beyond smartphones and has partnered with Valve to produce a virtual reality platform known as HTC Vive. After having collaborated with Google on its Google Pixel, HTC sold roughly half of its design and research talent, as well as non-exclusive rights to smartphone-related intellectual property, to Google in 2017 for US$1.1 billion.

Title: Xiaomi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xiaomi
Summary: Xiaomi (; Chinese: 小米; pinyin: Xiǎomǐ) is a Chinese multinational corporation and technology company headquartered in Beijing, China. It is best known for its consumer electronics, software, and electric vehicles. It is the third-largest smartphone seller in the world as of 2025, behind Apple and Samsung, most of which run on the Xiaomi HyperOS (former MIUI) operating system. It has 754.1 million global monthly active users, as of December 2025. The company is ranked 232nd and is the youngest company on the Fortune Global 500. It has been called the "Apple of China".
Xiaomi was founded in 2010 in Beijing by Lei Jun along with six associates. Lei had worked at Kingsoft as an executive and been involved in the founding and management of Joyo.com, the latter of which was sold to Amazon for $75 million in 2004. In August 2011, Xiaomi released its first smartphone and by 2014 it had the largest market share of smartphones sold in China. Initially the company only sold its products online; however, it later opened brick and mortar stores. By 2015, it was developing a wide range of consumer electronics. In 2020, the company sold 149.4 million smartphones and MIUI had over 500 million monthly active users. As of August 2024, Xiaomi is the second-largest seller of smartphones worldwide, with a market share of about 12%, according to Counterpoint. It has come up with its own range of wearable items. It also is a major manufacturer of appliances including televisions, flashlights, unmanned aerial vehicles, and air purifiers using its Internet of things and Xiaomi Smart Home product ecosystems.
Xiaomi keeps its prices close to its manufacturing and bill of materials costs by keeping most of its products in the market for 18 months, longer than most smartphone companies. The company also uses inventory optimization and flash sales to keep its inventory low.

Title: Redmi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redmi
Summary: Redmi (stylized in all caps) is a subsidiary brand owned by Chinese electronics company Xiaomi. It was first launched in July 2013 as a budget smartphone line, and became a separate sub-brand of Xiaomi in 2019 to take over entry-level and mid-range devices originally produced by Xiaomi brand, while Xiaomi itself produces upper-range and flagship Xiaomi (formerly Mi) phones. 
Redmi phones use Xiaomi's MIUI (2014–2023) and Xiaomi HyperOS (2023–present) user interface on top of Android. Models are divided into the entry-level Redmi, the mid-range Redmi Note, and the high-end Redmi K. In 2022, an ultra-basic entry-level lineup, Redmi A was introduced, with some models featuring Android Go and lacking MIUI/HyperOS user interface. The Redmi K is exclusive to China and rebranded as Poco (another Xiaomi subsidiary) for select global markets.
The most significant difference from other Xiaomi smartphones is that Redmi uses less expensive components, allowing lower prices while retaining more advanced specifications. In August 2014, The Wall Street Journal reported that in the second quarter of the 2014 fiscal year, Xiaomi had a smartphone market share of 14% in China; Redmi sales were attributed as a contributing factor toward this ranking.
Some devices with identical specification are released in some markets as POCO, in others as Redmi; for example the Poco X7 and Redmi Note 14 Pro 5G. Redmi Note 14 SE officially arrived in India on 28 July 2025.

Title: Fairphone 5
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fairphone_5
Summary: Fairphone 5 is a smartphone designed and marketed by Fairphone, following its Fairphone 4. Announced on 30 August 2023, the Fairphone 5 has been shipping since 14 September 2023. As of August 2023, the company was focused on Western Europe with no planned expansions into the United States.

Title: 2024 League of Legends World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_League_of_Legends_World_Championship
Summary: The 2024 League of Legends World Championship (German: League of Legends Weltmeisterschaft 2024; French: Le Championnat du Monde 2024 de League of Legends) was an esports tournament for the multiplayer online battle arena video game League of Legends. It was the fourteenth iteration of the League of Legends World Championship, an annual international tournament organised by the game's developer, Riot Games. The tournament was held from 25 September to 2 November in Berlin, Paris, and London. It marked the third time Germany and France hosted the event after the 2015 and 2019 editions, while it was the second World Championship to be held in England, United Kingdom since 2015. Twenty teams qualified for the event based on placement within their regional leagues and results gained in the 2024 Mid-Season Invitational (MSI).
The finals took place on 2 November at The O2 Arena in London, where T1 of the League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) successfully defended their title after defeating Bilibili Gaming of the League of Legends Pro League (LPL) 3–2 to win the organization's record-extending fifth World Championship.