Title: Academy Award for Best Costume Design
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Academy_Award_for_Best_Costume_Design
Summary: The Academy Award for Best Costume Design is one of the Academy Awards presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) for achievement in film costume design.
The award was first given in 1949, for films made in 1948. Initially, separate award categories were established for black-and-white films and color films. Since the merger of the two categories in 1967, the Academy has traditionally avoided giving out the award to films with a contemporary setting.

Title: Robert Downey Jr.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Downey_Jr.
Summary: Robert John Downey Jr. (born April 4, 1965) is an American actor and producer. His films as a leading actor have grossed over $14.3 billion worldwide, making him one of the highest-grossing actors of all time. Downey was the highest-paid actor in the world annually from 2013 to 2015. Known for his versatility across roles, he is the recipient of various accolades, including an Academy Award, a Daytime Emmy Award, three Golden Globe Awards, and two British Academy Film Awards.
At the age of five, Downey made his acting debut in his father Robert Downey Sr.'s film Pound (1970). He rose to prominence by working with the Brat Pack for the teen films Weird Science (1985) and Less than Zero (1987). His portrayal of Charlie Chaplin in the biopic Chaplin (1992) earned him the BAFTA Award for Best Actor and an Academy Award nomination. After spending less than a year at a treatment facility on drug charges, Downey joined the television series Ally McBeal in 2000, earning a Golden Globe for his performance. Dismissed from the show in 2001 following further drug-related arrests, he entered a court-ordered rehabilitation program and has remained sober since 2003.
Downey revitalized his career and achieved global recognition by starring as Tony Stark / Iron Man in ten Marvel Cinematic Universe films, beginning with a solo feature film in 2008. He is set to return to the franchise as Doctor Doom in Avengers: Doomsday (2026). He earned his second Academy Award nomination for his performance in the satirical comedy  Tropic Thunder (2008) and later won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of bureaucrat Lewis Strauss in Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer (2023). He also portrayed the titular role in Sherlock Holmes (2009), which earned him a Golden Globe Award nomination. In 2024, he was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for the miniseries The Sympathizer and made his Broadway debut in the title role of Ayad Akhtar's McNeal.
Time named Downey one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2008 and Forbes featured him on the Celebrity 100 in 2013 and 2014. He has pursued music, releasing the jazz-pop album The Futurist (2004), which charted on the US Billboard 200. Divorced from singer Deborah Falconer, Downey has been married to film producer Susan Levin since 2005; they co-founded the production company Team Downey. Downey has three children: one with Falconer and two with Levin. In 2025, he was named one of the greatest film actors of the 21st century by The Independent.

Title: 55th Academy Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/55th_Academy_Awards
Summary: The 55th Academy Awards ceremony, organized by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS), honored films released in 1982 and took place on April 11, 1983, at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion in Los Angeles beginning at 6:00 p.m. PST / 9:00 p.m. EST. During the ceremony, AMPAS presented Academy Awards (commonly referred to as Oscars) in 24 categories. The ceremony, televised in the United States by ABC, was produced by Howard W. Koch and directed by Marty Pasetta. Actors Walter Matthau, Liza Minnelli, Dudley Moore, and Richard Pryor hosted the show. Matthau and Pryor hosted the gala for the second time; the former was a co-host of the 48th ceremony in 1976 while the latter co-hosted the 49th ceremony held in 1977. Meanwhile, Minnelli and Moore hosted for the first time. Two weeks earlier, in a ceremony held at The Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, California, on March 27, the Academy Scientific and Technical Awards were presented by host Dyan Cannon.
Gandhi won eight awards, including Best Picture. Other winners included E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial with four awards, An Officer and a Gentleman with two, Begin the Beguine, If You Love This Planet, Just Another Missing Kid, Missing, Quest for Fire, A Shocking Accident, Sophie's Choice, Tango, Tootsie, and Victor/Victoria with one. The telecast garnered 53.2 million viewers in the United States.

Title: List of awards and nominations received by Leonardo DiCaprio
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_awards_and_nominations_received_by_Leonardo_DiCaprio
Summary: Actor Leonardo DiCaprio has been nominated for eight Academy Awards, fifteen Actor Awards and seven British Academy Film Awards, winning one from each of these, and three Golden Globes from fifteen nominations.
DiCaprio received three Young Artist Award nominations for his roles in television shows during the early 1990s—the soap opera Santa Barbara (1990), the dramedy Parenthood (1990) and the sitcom Growing Pains (1991). This was followed by his film debut in the direct-to-video feature Critters 3 (1991). He played a mentally challenged boy in the drama What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993), a role that earned him nominations for the Academy Award and Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor. Three years later, he appeared in Romeo + Juliet, for which he earned a Best Actor award from the Berlin International Film Festival. DiCaprio featured opposite Kate Winslet in the romantic drama Titanic (1997), the highest-grossing film to that point. For the film, he garnered the MTV Movie Award for Best Male Performance and his first Golden Globe Award for Best Actor nomination. For a role in The Beach, he was nominated for two Teen Choice Awards (Choice Actor and Choice Chemistry) but also a Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Actor. DiCaprio was cast in the role of con-artist Frank Abagnale, Jr. in the crime drama Catch Me If You Can, and starred in the historical drama Gangs of New York—films that earned him two nominations at the 2003 MTV Movie Awards.
DiCaprio received his first Lead Actor nominations for his first Academy Award, BAFTA Award, and Critics' Choice Award for his portrayal of Howard Hughes in the biographical drama The Aviator (2004); he won a Golden Globe Award in the same category. For his next appearances—the crime drama The Departed (2006), the war thriller Blood Diamond (2006), the drama Revolutionary Road (2008) and the biographical drama J. Edgar (2011)—he garnered nominations for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama. DiCaprio earned nominations for the Saturn Award for Best Actor for his roles in the psychological thriller Shutter Island (2010) and the science fiction thriller Inception (2010). He co-produced and played stockbroker Jordan Belfort in The Wolf of Wall Street (2013), a role that earned him the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy as well as Oscar and BAFTA nominations. DiCaprio was also nominated for his first and, to date, only Academy Award for Best Picture. He won the Golden Globe Award, BAFTA Award, and Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of Hugh Glass in the 2015 film The Revenant. For playing an aging television actor in the comedy-drama Once Upon a Time in Hollywood (2019), he received Lead Actor nominations for an Oscar, a BAFTA, a SAG, a Critics' Choice, and a Golden Globe. For his performance as a former revolutionary on a journey to save his daughter in One Battle After Another, he received his sixth Best Actor Oscar nomination.

Title: 97th Academy Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/97th_Academy_Awards
Summary: The 97th Academy Awards ceremony, presented by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS), took place on March 2, 2025, at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, Los Angeles. During the gala, the AMPAS presented Academy Awards (commonly referred to as Oscars) in 23 categories honoring films released in 2024. The ceremony, televised in the United States by ABC and streamed on Hulu, was produced by Raj Kapoor and Katy Mullan, and was directed by Hamish Hamilton. Comedian Conan O'Brien hosted the show for the first time.
In related events, the Academy held its 15th Governors Awards ceremony at the Ray Dolby Ballroom of the Ovation Hollywood complex in Hollywood, on November 17, 2024. The Academy Scientific and Technical Awards were presented by host Diego Luna on April 29, 2025, in a ceremony at the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures in Los Angeles.
Anora won a leading five awards, including Best Picture. Other winners included The Brutalist with three awards; Dune: Part Two, Emilia Pérez, and Wicked with two awards each; and Conclave, Flow, I'm Not a Robot, I'm Still Here, In the Shadow of the Cypress, No Other Land, The Only Girl in the Orchestra, A Real Pain, and The Substance with one each. The telecast drew 19.69 million viewers in the United States.