Title: 2025
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025
Summary: 2025 (MMXXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar, the 2025th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 25th  year of the 3rd millennium and the 21st century, and the  6th   year of the 2020s decade.  
The year saw an escalation of major ongoing armed conflicts, including the Gaza war, marked by famine and a humanitarian crisis; the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which prompted peace negotiations involving Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump; and the Sudanese civil war.
Internal crises in Armenia, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, France, Georgia, Germany, Haiti, Libya, Pakistan, Peru, Somalia, and South Korea persisted into the year, with the latter culminating in the arrest and removal of President Yoon Suk Yeol from office. Furthermore, a diplomatic crisis between China and Japan broke out in November.
The year also witnessed a wave of protests predominantly led by Generation Z, with some movements—such as those in Nepal and Madagascar—resulting in the overthrow of targeted governments. Several brief conflicts arising from longstanding tensions emerged mid-year, including clashes between India and Pakistan in May, Iran and Israel in June, and Cambodia and Thailand in July. In the latter case, a leaked phone call involving Thai prime minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and Cambodian senate president Hun Sen resulted in the removal of the former from office.
In economics and business, the return of Donald Trump to the U.S. presidency ushered in a series of tariffs imposed by the United States on the rest of the world, significantly disrupting global trade and reinvigorating the China–United States trade war. The technology sector was also affected by the release of the DeepSeek chatbot, a Chinese large language model that competed with ChatGPT.
Aviation and aerospace experienced several accidents during the year, including a collision between two aircraft half a mile south of Washington National Airport in January, and the crash of Air India Flight 171, a Boeing 787 bound for Gatwick, in Ahmedabad, India, in June. The year also saw notable advances in space exploration, including the first crewed polar-orbit spaceflight and the first fully successful lunar landing by a private company.

Title: Mark Carney
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Carney
Summary: Mark Joseph Carney (born March 16, 1965) is a Canadian politician, economist, and banker who is the 24th prime minister of Canada and leader of the Liberal Party, serving since 2025. Carney is the member of Parliament (MP) for Nepean since his election in April 2025. He was previously Governor of the Bank of Canada from 2008 to 2013 and Governor of the Bank of England from 2013 to 2020.
Carney was born in Fort Smith, Northwest Territories, and raised in Edmonton, Alberta. He graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics from Harvard University in 1987, and earned a master's degree in 1993 and a doctorate in 1995 from the University of Oxford, both in economics. Carney worked at Goldman Sachs for 13 years before joining the Bank of Canada in 2003 as a deputy governor. In 2004, he joined the Department of Finance Canada as a senior associate deputy minister. Carney served as the eighth governor of the Bank of Canada from 2008 to 2013. As governor, he oversaw Canadian monetary policy during the 2008 global financial crisis. He was appointed as the second chair of the Financial Stability Board in 2011, serving for two terms until 2018. After his term as Governor of the Bank of Canada, Carney was appointed as the 120th governor of the Bank of England, becoming the first non-British incumbent. He served from 2013 to 2020, leading the central bank's responses to Brexit and the early phase of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Following his governorship, Carney held several roles in the private and public sectors. He served as chair of Bloomberg L.P., vice-chair at Brookfield Asset Management, and co-chair of the World Bank's private sector investment lab. He was the United Nations Secretary-General's Special Envoy on Climate Action and Finance from 2020. He was an informal advisor to Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, before returning to the private sector. After Trudeau announced his resignation in 2025, Carney won the Liberal Party leadership election in a landslide victory. The first prime minister never to have held elected office, Carney then advised the governor general to dissolve Parliament and trigger a federal election. In that election, he led the Liberals to a minority government—overturning previous poor opinion polling to win the party's fourth consecutive mandate since 2015—and was elected to represent the riding of Nepean in the House of Commons. A year later, Carney's Liberals formed a majority government as a result of opposition MPs crossing the floor and by-election victories.
During his tenure as prime minister, Carney removed the federal consumer carbon tax, enacted the One Canadian Economy Act in response to a trade war started by the United States, launched the Build Canada Homes agency, and introduced the Canada Groceries and Essentials Benefit. Carney's government oversaw a sharp increase in defence spending, formally recognized the State of Palestine, improved relations with China and with India, and has continued support for Ukraine in the Russo-Ukrainian war. Carney is ideologically characterized as a centrist, technocrat, and a Blue Grit Liberal; as prime minister, he has moved the Liberals towards the political centre.

Title: Governor of Sindh
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Sindh
Summary: The governor of Sindh is the appointed head of the province of Sindh, Pakistan. The office of the governor as the head of the province is largely a ceremonial position; the executive powers lie with the Chief Secretary and the Chief Minister of Sindh.
However, there were instances throughout the history of Pakistan, the powers of the provincial governors were vastly increased, when the provincial assemblies were dissolved and the administrative role came under direct control of the governors, as in the cases of martial laws of 1958–1972 and 1977–1985, and governor rules of 1999–2002. In the case of Sindh, there were three direct instances of governor's rule under Mian Aminuddin, Rahimuddin Khan and Moinuddin Haider respectively, in 1951–1953, 1988, and 1998 when the provincial chief ministers of those times were removed and assemblies dissolved.
The governor is appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister. The Governor House in Karachi is the official residence of the governor of Sindh. Nehal Hashmi is the current governor of Sindh.

Title: Jane Owen
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jane_Owen
Summary: Jane Caroline Owen (born 15 April 1963) is a British politician and diplomat. She is the current Governor of the Cayman Islands and the second woman to hold this position. She had previously served as the British ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein and the British ambassador to Norway.

Title: City St George's, University of London
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_St_George%27s,_University_of_London
Summary: City St George's, University of London is a public research university in London, England, and a member institution of the University of London. Founded in 1894 as the Northampton Institute, it officially became a university when the City University was created by royal charter in 1966. The Inns of Court School of Law, which merged with City in 2001, was established in 1852.
City joined the federal University of London on 1 September 2016, becoming City, University of London. In 2024, St George's, University of London, which was established in 1834, merged with the university, with the combined institution adopting its name City St George's, University of London the following year.
City St George's has strong links with the City of London, and the Lord Mayor of London serves as the university's rector. The university has Central London campuses spanning the London Borough of Islington; the City of London; and the London Borough of Wandsworth. It is organised into six schools, within which there are around forty academic departments and centres, including the Department of Journalism, Bayes Business School (formerly Cass Business School), and City Law School which incorporates the Inns of Court School of Law. The annual income of the institution for 2024–25 was £487.8 million, of which £24.4 million was from research grants and contracts, with an expenditure of £415.3 million.
The university is a member of the Association of MBAs, EQUIS and Universities UK. Alumni of City St George's include  members of Parliament of the United Kingdom, politicians and CEOs.