Title: List of most expensive paintings
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_expensive_paintings
Summary: This is a list of the highest known prices paid for paintings. The record payment for a work is approximately US$450.3 million (which includes commission) for the work Salvator Mundi (c. 1500) generally considered to be by Leonardo da Vinci, though this is disputed. The painting was sold in November 2017, through the auction house Christie's in New York City.

Title: Salvator Mundi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salvator_Mundi
Summary: Salvator Mundi, Latin for Saviour of the World, is a subject in iconography depicting Christ with his right hand raised in blessing and his left hand holding an orb (frequently surmounted by a cross), known as a globus cruciger. The latter symbolizes the Earth, and the whole composition has strong eschatological undertones.
The theme is associated with Early Netherlandish painting and the painters of the Northern Renaissance. However, an Italian painting using the same theme has been attributed to Leonardo da Vinci.

Title: Salvator Mundi (painting)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salvator_Mundi_(painting)
Summary: Salvator Mundi (Latin for 'Savior of the World') is a painting attributed in whole or part to the Italian High Renaissance artist Leonardo da Vinci, dated c. 1499–1510. Long thought to be a copy of a lost original veiled with overpainting, it was rediscovered, restored, and included in an exhibition of Leonardo's work at the National Gallery, London, in 2011–2012. Christie's, which sold the work in 2017, stated that most leading scholars consider it an original work by Leonardo, but this attribution has been disputed by some leading specialists who propose that he only contributed certain elements; others believe that the extensive restoration prevents a definitive attribution.
The painting depicts Jesus Christ in anachronistic blue Renaissance attire, making a gesture of blessing with his right hand, while holding a transparent, non-refracting crystal orb in his left, signalling his role as Salvator Mundi and representing the celestial sphere of the heavens. Approximately thirty copies and variations of the work by pupils and followers of Leonardo have been identified; two are considered to have been produced during Leonardo's lifetime. Two preparatory chalk and ink drawings of the drapery by Leonardo are held in the British Royal Collection.
The painting was sold at auction for US$450.3 million on 15 November 2017 by Christie's in New York to Prince Badr bin Abdullah Al Saud, setting a new record for the most expensive painting ever sold at public auction. Although Prince Badr allegedly made the purchase on behalf of Abu Dhabi's Department of Culture and Tourism, shortly afterwards it was reported that he was a stand-in bidder for his close ally, the Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. The painting has not been publicly exhibited since the 2017 Christie's auction, and since late 2020 has been in storage in Saudi Arabia reportedly awaiting a museum and cultural center to be completed in Al-'Ula.

Title: Salvator Mundi (Previtali)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salvator_Mundi_(Previtali)
Summary: Salvator mundi is an oil on panel painting by Andrea Previtali, executed in 1519, now in the National Gallery, London, to which it was left in 1910. The work was produced in Bergamo.

Title: Salvator Mundi (Palma Vecchio)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salvator_Mundi_(Palma_Vecchio)
Summary: Salvator Mundi (Jesus Christ, Saviour of the World) is a religious painting by Italian Renaissance artist Palma Vecchio, dated to c. 1518-1522. It is on display in the Musée des Beaux-Arts of Strasbourg, France (inventory number 585).