Title: Billy Monger
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Billy_Monger
Summary: Billy Edmund Albert Monger (born 5 May 1999) is a British former racing driver who raced in British F4 in 2016 and 2017. He now works as a commentator and pundit. He has been referred to by the nickname Billy Whizz, after the character in British comic anthology The Beano.
In April 2017, Monger was critically injured in a collision at Donington Park that caused both of his legs to be amputated, one below and the other above the knee. Up to that point, he had been heavily involved in kart racing all over the UK and the Channel Islands, as well as a successful Ginetta Junior racer before moving into single-seater categories.
After treatment and therapy, Monger returned to competition in November 2017. In 2018, he was awarded the BBC Sports Personality of the Year Helen Rollason Award for outstanding achievement in the face of adversity. From 2019, he provided analysis for Channel 4 F1. He also competed in the Formula 3 based Euroformula Open championship for Carlin Motorsport, achieving his first single-seater race win at the 2019 Pau Grand Prix.

Title: False or misleading statements by Donald Trump
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False_or_misleading_statements_by_Donald_Trump
Summary: During and between his terms as president of the United States, Donald Trump has made tens of thousands of false or misleading claims. Fact-checkers at The Washington Post documented 30,573 false or misleading claims during his first presidential term, an average of 21 per day. Commentators and fact-checkers have described Trump's lying as unprecedented in American politics, and the consistency of falsehoods as a distinctive part of his business and political identities. Scholarly analysis of Trump's tweets found significant evidence of an intent to deceive.
Many news organizations initially resisted describing Trump's falsehoods as lies, but began to do so by June 2019. The Washington Post said his frequent repetition of claims he knew to be false amounted to a campaign based on disinformation. Steve Bannon, Trump's 2016 presidential campaign CEO and chief strategist during the first seven months of Trump's first presidency, said that the press, rather than Democrats, was Trump's primary adversary and "the way to deal with them is to flood the zone with shit." In February 2025, a public relations CEO stated that the "flood the zone" tactic (also known as the firehose of falsehood) was designed to make sure no single action or event stands out above the rest by having them occur at a rapid pace, thus preventing the public from keeping up and preventing controversy or outrage over any specific action or event.
As part of their attempts to overturn the 2020 U.S. presidential election, Trump and his allies repeatedly falsely claimed there had been massive election fraud and that Trump had won the election. Their effort was characterized by some as an implementation of Hitler's "big lie" propaganda technique. In June 2023, a criminal grand jury indicted Trump on one count of making "false statements and representations", specifically by hiding subpoenaed classified documents from his own attorney who was trying to find and return them to the government. In August 2023, 21 of Trump's falsehoods about the 2020 election were listed in his Washington, D.C. criminal indictment, and 27 were listed in his Georgia criminal indictment. It has been suggested that Trump's false statements amount to bullshit rather than lies, as defined in the 1986 essay On Bullshit.

Title: Features of the Marvel Cinematic Universe
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Features_of_the_Marvel_Cinematic_Universe
Summary: The Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) media franchise features many elements, including locations, weapons, and artifacts. Many are based on elements that originally appeared in the American comic books published by Marvel Comics, while others were created for the MCU.

Title: 2024 in Australia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_in_Australia
Summary: The following is a list of events that occurred in the year 2024 in Australia.

Title: Assassination of Charlie Kirk
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_of_Charlie_Kirk
Summary: On September 10, 2025, Charlie Kirk, an American right-wing political activist, was assassinated at Utah Valley University in Orem, Utah, while speaking at an outdoor campus debate planned by Turning Point USA, the conservative youth organization he co-founded and led. Kirk was a close ally of US president Donald Trump and a highly influential figure in the MAGA movement.
Shortly after the debate event began, with around 3,000 people in attendance, Kirk was fatally shot in the neck with a single bullet by a sniper positioned on the roof of a building approximately 142 yards (130 m) away. Kirk was taken to a local hospital, where he was pronounced dead at age 31. A manhunt for the shooter ended the following day when Tyler James Robinson, a 22-year-old from Washington, Utah, surrendered to the local sheriff after his parents allegedly convinced him to do so after he confessed to them. Prosecutors charged Robinson with a total of ten criminal counts including aggravated murder, and announced they would seek the death penalty, alleging a politically motivated attack. Robinson pleaded not guilty to all of the charges on September 1, 2026.
The assassination was highlighted as an instance of increasing political violence in the United States and was condemned by national and foreign leaders. Social media reactions featured expressions of heartfelt messages from the left and right, anguish about political violence, and sharply divisive partisan takes. Trump, members of the Republican Party, and other conservative figures blamed members of the Democratic Party and left-wing or liberal beliefs before a suspect was in custody or a motive was identified.
The Trump administration called for a crackdown against what it called "political extremism" on the left, which was widely criticized by free speech advocates and legal experts as using the assassination as a pretext to silence political opposition. A campaign by right-wing organizations and US government agencies resulted in mass firings and disciplinary actions against people seen as celebrating Kirk's death or making critical comments about him in the aftermath of the assassination. Kirk's memorial service was held at State Farm Stadium in Arizona on September 21.