Title: Home Run Derby
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Home_Run_Derby
Summary: The Home Run Derby, officially known as the T-Mobile Home Run Derby, is an annual home run hitting competition in Major League Baseball (MLB) customarily held the day before the MLB All-Star Game, which places the contest on a Monday in July. In the context of the competition a "home run" consists of hitting a baseball in fair territory out of the playing field on the fly. It differs from a home run hit during legal gameplay in that the batter is not competing against a pitcher and a defensive team attempting to make an out. In the Home Run Derby, all pitches are purposefully thrown slowly and at a closer range than the official 60 feet 6 inches (18.44 m) distance, usually by a coach behind a pitching screen. In addition, like batting practice, the batter remains in the batter's box after each swing and does not run, nor circle the bases to score a run. In 2023, Julio Rodríguez set the single-round home run record with 41 homers, topping Vladimir Guerrero Jr.'s 40 home runs in 2019.
The batter also does not have to conform to the usual league uniform standards, and as all pitches are tossed in the strike zone without any threat of beanballs, may choose to wear a regular baseball cap instead of a batting helmet. As the event traditionally takes place at sunset where the sun is of no factor to the batter, they can choose to wear their hat casually and backwards.
Since the inaugural derby in 1985, the event has seen several rule changes, evolving from a short-outs-based competition to multiple rounds, and eventually a bracket-style timed event.
T-Mobile has been the title sponsor of the Home Run Derby since 2016.

Title: List of Major League Baseball home run records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Major_League_Baseball_home_run_records
Summary: This is a list of some of the records relating to home runs hit in baseball games played in the Major Leagues. Some Major League records are sufficiently notable to have their own page, for example the single-season home run record, the progression of the lifetime home run record, and the members of the 500 home run club. A few other records are kept on separate pages, they are listed below.
In the tables below, players and teams denoted in boldface  are still actively contributing to the record noted, while (r) denotes a player's rookie season.

Title: Aaron Judge
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron_Judge
Summary: Aaron James Judge (born April 26, 1992) is an American professional baseball right fielder for the New York Yankees of Major League Baseball (MLB). He is an eight-time MLB All-Star and three-time American League (AL) Most Valuable Player Award (MVP) winner. He holds the AL record for most home runs in a season with 62. He stands 6 feet 7 inches (2.01 m) tall and weighs 282 pounds (128 kg), making him one of the tallest and largest players in MLB. He is considered to be among the best power hitters of all time.
Judge played college baseball for the Fresno State Bulldogs, and was selected by the Yankees with the 32nd pick in the first round of the 2013 MLB draft. After making his MLB debut in 2016, Judge won AL Rookie of the Year in 2017 by unanimous vote and finished second in AL MVP voting. He hit an AL-leading 52 home runs, temporarily setting a new MLB rookie record, and became the first rookie to win the Home Run Derby. In 2022, Judge won his first MVP after setting the AL single-season home run record, breaking the 61-year-old mark held by Roger Maris.
Following the 2022 season, Judge re-signed with the Yankees on a nine-year, $360-million contract and was named the team's captain. In 2024, he won his second MVP by unanimous vote, leading MLB in home runs and OPS while becoming the fastest MLB player to reach 300 career home runs. That postseason, the Yankees won their first AL pennant in 15 years, but lost in the World Series. He won his third MVP and second consecutive in 2025, and also captured his first batting title. Judge captained the United States national team during the 2026 World Baseball Classic.

Title: 2024 Major League Baseball season
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Major_League_Baseball_season
Summary: The 2024 Major League Baseball season (MLB) began on March 20–21 with a two-game series between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the San Diego Padres held in Seoul, South Korea, before the regular season proper run from March 28 to September 30. The 94th All-Star Game was played on July 16 at Globe Life Field in Arlington, Texas, with the American League winning, 5–3. The postseason then began on October 1 and concluded with Game 5 of the World Series on October 30. Going into the season, the defending World Series champions were the Texas Rangers from the 2023 season. During the offseason, the Oakland Athletics were approved by MLB owners to relocate to Las Vegas in 2028. It was also the team's final season in Oakland as they left the Oakland Coliseum to temporarily play at Sutter Health Park in West Sacramento for three years.
Only two teams were unable to complete the entire 162-game regular season schedule, as the game between the Houston Astros and the Cleveland Guardians at Progressive Field on September 29 was scrapped due to rain and never made up, owing to scheduling constraints and the game being inconsequential to the playoffs. It would be the first time since 2021 that a few teams played more regular season games than the others. This cancellation led to a scenario where had the Astros and Mets both won their respective pennants, the Mets would have home field advantage by a half game. Since the Astros held the superior head to head record, this means that the cancellation could have potentially decided home field advantage in the World Series (as if the game was played and the Astros won, the Astros would have held the advantage). However, neither team would make the title series, making the potential moot.
It was also the first season since 2014 that no team won at least 100 games (not counting the shortened 2020 season).
With their finish of 41–121, the Chicago White Sox achieved the record for most losses in the Modern Era (since 1901), surpassing the New York Mets of 1962.

Title: 2024 World Series
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_World_Series
Summary: The 2024 World Series (branded as the 2024 World Series presented by Capital One) was the championship series of Major League Baseball's (MLB) 2024 season. The 120th edition of the World Series, it was a best-of-seven playoff between the American League (AL) champion New York Yankees and the National League (NL) champion Los Angeles Dodgers. It was the Yankees' first World Series appearance since 2009 (and 41st in franchise history) and the Dodgers' first World Series appearance since 2020 (25th overall).  It was also the 12th time in the Dodgers–Yankees rivalry that the teams met in the World Series, and the first instance since 1981. The series began on October 25 and ended on October 30 with the Dodgers defeating the Yankees in five games. Freddie Freeman was named the MVP of the series, tying a World Series record with 12 runs batted in (RBIs) and hitting home runs in the first four games of the series, including Game 1 when he hit the first walk-off grand slam in World Series history.
The Yankees and Dodgers entered the 2024 MLB postseason as the top seeds in their respective leagues. The Dodgers had home-field advantage in the series due to their better regular season win-loss record. Superstar players Aaron Judge and Shohei Ohtani had also made their World Series debuts this Series. Coming into the series, the two teams had played 66 World Series games against each other all-time, the most for any two teams by far, with the Yankees having a 37–29 record over the Dodgers. The Yankees had a 6-1 World Series title edge during the Brooklyn Dodgers/Subway Series era, with the two teams tying 2-2 following the Dodgers' relocation to Los Angeles, making the overall record 8-3.   
In the 2024 World Series, Freeman's Game 1 walk-off grand slam built momentum for the Dodgers to take a 3-0 series lead, following two subsequent low-scoring wins. The Yankees showed signs of struggle as a Grand Slam put them ahead in game 4 leading to the eventual win, making the series 3-1. At the time many thought this was a change in momentum. In Game 5, the Yankees quickly took a 5-0 lead heading into the 5th inning. However, Game 5 is most remembered for a series of Yankee errors and misplays that enabled the Dodgers to overcome the 5-run deficit and tie the game in the same inning. The Dodgers would eventually retake the lead and clinch the title, ending the series at 4-1 and setting the record for most runs to come from behind in a World Series-clinching game.  
It was the Dodgers' eighth World Series title in franchise history following 2020. For the Yankees, it was their 14th World Series loss in franchise history, putting them in a two-way tie for most World Series losses with the Dodgers. In terms of their rivalry, the Dodgers won the series over the Yankees for the fourth time, the record standing at 4-8 following this series, holding a 3-2 edge since their relocation to Los Angeles. The Dodgers would make the World Series again the following year, winning in seven games against the Toronto Blue Jays and becoming the first back-to-back champions since the 2000 Yankees.