Minecraft is a sandbox video game developed and published by the Swedish company Mojang Studios. Following its initial public alpha release as an early access title in 2009, it was formally released in November 2011 for personal computers. The game has since been ported to numerous platforms, including mobile devices and various video game consoles.
In Minecraft, players explore a procedurally generated world with virtually infinite terrain made up of three-dimensional blocks represented as voxels. They can discover and extract raw materials, craft tools and items, build structures, fight hostile mobs, and cooperate with or compete against other players in multiplayer. In addition, the game's large community offers a wide variety of user-generated content, such as modifications, servers, player skins, texture packs, and custom maps, which add new game mechanics and possibilities.
Originally created by Markus "Notch" Persson using the Java programming language, Jens "Jeb" Bergensten was handed control over the game's development following its full release. In November 2014, Mojang and the Minecraft intellectual property were purchased by Microsoft for US$2.5 billion; Xbox Game Studios hold the publishing rights for the Bedrock Edition, the unified cross-platform version which evolved from the Pocket Edition codebase and replaced the legacy console versions. Bedrock is updated concurrently with Mojang's original Java Edition, although with numerous, generally small, differences.
Minecraft is the best-selling video game of all time with over 400 million copies sold. It has received critical acclaim, winning several awards and being cited as one of the best video games ever made. Social media, parodies, adaptations, merchandise, and the annual Minecon conventions have played prominent roles in popularizing it. The wider Minecraft franchise includes several spin-off games, such as Minecraft: Story Mode, Minecraft Dungeons, and Minecraft Legends. A film adaptation, titled A Minecraft Movie, was released in 2025 and is the third highest-grossing video game film of all time.


== Gameplay ==
Minecraft is a three-dimensional sandbox video game played in discrete, persistent instances called "worlds". These worlds are composed of rough 3D objects—mainly cubes, referred to as blocks—arranged in a voxel grid and representing various materials, such as dirt, stone, ores, logs, water, and lava. The core gameplay revolves around picking up and placing these blocks: players can move freely around the world, breaking, or mining, blocks and then placing them elsewhere to build structures. Most blocks are not affected by gravity, instead maintaining their voxel position in the air. Minecraft has no required goals to accomplish, giving players a large amount of freedom in choosing how to play the game, though an optional achievement system is included. Gameplay is in the first-person perspective by default, but players have the option of third-person perspectives (back and front).
Players can craft a wide variety of items, including armor, which mitigates damage from attacks; weapons—such as swords or bows and arrows—which make it easier to kill monsters and animals; and tools—such as pickaxes or shovels—which break certain types of blocks more quickly. Some items have multiple tiers based on the material used to craft them, with higher-tier items being more effective and durable. Players may also craft functional blocks, such as furnaces, which cook food and smelt ores, and torches, which produce light. Additionally, players can trade with villagers (NPCs), exchanging emeralds for various goods. The game has an inventory system, allowing players to carry a limited number of items. The in-game time system follows a day and night cycle, with one full cycle lasting 20 real-time minutes. The game also features a material called redstone, which can be used to build primitive mechanical devices, electrical circuits, and logic gates, enabling the construction of complex systems.

New players are given a randomly selected default character skin out of nine possibilities, including Steve or Alex, but are able to create and upload their own skins. Players encounter various mobs (mobile entities) including animals, villagers, and hostile creatures. Passive mobs, such as cows, pigs, and chickens, spawn during the daytime and can be hunted for food and crafting materials, while hostile mobs—including large spiders, witches, skeletons, and zombies—spawn during nighttime or in dark places such as caves. Other creatures unique to Minecraft include the creeper (an exploding creature that sneaks up on the player) and the enderman (a creature with the ability to teleport as well as pick up and place blocks). There are also variants of mobs that spawn in different conditions; for example, zombies have husk and drowned variants that spawn in deserts and oceans, respectively.


=== Generation ===
The Minecraft environment is procedurally generated as players explore it using a map seed that is randomly chosen at the time of world creation (or manually specified by the player). Divided into biomes representing different environments with unique resources and structures, worlds are designed to be effectively infinite in traditional gameplay, though technical limits on the player have existed throughout development, both intentionally and not.
Implementation of horizontally infinite generation initially resulted in a glitch termed the "Far Lands" at over 12 million blocks away from the world center, where terrain generated as wall-like, fissured patterns. The Far Lands and associated glitches were considered the effective edge of the world until they were resolved, with the current horizontal limit instead being a special impassable barrier located 30 million blocks away in each direction. Vertical space is comparatively limited, with an unbreakable bedrock layer at the bottom and a building limit several hundred blocks into the s