Title: Nuclear weapon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_weapon
Summary: A nuclear weapon is an explosive device that derives its destructive force from nuclear reactions, either nuclear fission (fission or atomic bomb) or a combination of fission and nuclear fusion reactions (thermonuclear weapon), producing a nuclear explosion. Both bomb types release large quantities of energy from relatively small amounts of matter. Nuclear warfare is widely considered a global catastrophic risk. Nine sovereign states are known or believed to possess nuclear weapons as of 2026: the United States, Russia, the United Kingdom, France, China, India, Pakistan, North Korea and Israel.
The majority of nuclear weapons have energy yields between 100 and 1,000 kilotons of TNT. Yields in the low kilotons can destroy cities. The effects of nuclear weapons include extreme blast damage, heat, ionizing radiation, and firestorms, followed by radioactive nuclear fallout, an electromagnetic pulse, radar blackout, and acute or chronic radiation syndrome in humans and animals. Hundreds of nuclear explosions would likely cause nuclear winter and nuclear famine.
The first nuclear weapons were developed by the United States in collaboration with the United Kingdom and Canada during World War II in the Manhattan Project. Production requires a large scientific-industrial complex, primarily for fissile material, either nuclear reactors and reprocessing plants producing plutonium, or uranium enrichment facilities. Nuclear weapons have been used twice in war, in the 1945 atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki that killed between 150,000 and 246,000 people. Nuclear deterrence, including mutually assured destruction, aims to prevent nuclear warfare via the threat of unacceptable damage and the danger of escalation to nuclear holocaust. A nuclear arms race for weapons and their delivery systems was a defining component of the Cold War. Nuclear weapons have had yields between 50 megatons for the Tsar Bomba, and 10 tons for the W54.
Strategic nuclear weapons are targeted against civilian, industrial, and military infrastructure, while tactical nuclear weapons are intended for battlefield use. Strategic weapons led to the development of dedicated intercontinental ballistic missiles, submarine-launched ballistic missile, and nuclear strategic bombers, collectively known as the nuclear triad. Tactical weapons options included shorter-range ground-, air-, and sea-launched missiles, artillery, demolition munitions, torpedoes, and depth charges, but they have become less salient since the end of the Cold War.
Two nuclear-armed states have nuclear sharing arrangements, stationing their weapons in six other countries: US weapons are deployed in Belgium, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, and Turkey; Russian weapons are deployed in Belarus. Roughly 40 countries have defense policies based on nuclear deterrence, including more than 30 non-nuclear-weapon states under extended deterrence (also known as nuclear umbrella) agreements such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Nuclear weapons are weapons of mass destruction, and their control is a focus of international security through measures to prevent nuclear proliferation, arms control, or nuclear disarmament. The total global stockpile peaked at more than 64,000 weapons in 1986, and is around 9,600 as of 2025. Key international agreements and organizations include the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and Organization, the International Atomic Energy Agency, nuclear-weapon-free zones, and the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.

Title: Weapon of mass destruction
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weapon_of_mass_destruction
Summary: A weapon of mass destruction (WMD) is a biological, chemical, radiological, nuclear, or any other weapon that can kill or significantly harm many people or cause great damage to artificial structures (e.g., buildings), natural structures (e.g., mountains), or the biosphere. The scope and usage of the term has evolved and been disputed, often signifying more politically than technically. Originally coined in reference to aerial bombing with conventional explosives during World War II, it has later come to refer to large-scale weaponry of warfare-related technologies, primarily biological, chemical, radiological, or nuclear warfare. Protective measures against weapons of mass destruction are known as CBRN defense.
The histories of biological and chemical warfare date from antiquity to the modern period, with toxic gases used on a vast scale in World War I. In World War II, the United States first developed nuclear weapons, and used them in war twice, in the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Nazi Germany's use of gases during the Holocaust killed approximately three million people, the largest death toll due to chemical weapons in history. The Empire of Japan used chemical and biological warfare on a large scale in China during the Second Sino-Japanese War, killing hundreds of thousands.
During the Cold War, the United States and Soviet Union operated the largest programs for nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons in history. The nuclear arms race saw the production of tens of thousands of thermonuclear weapons and delivery systems such as intercontinental ballistic missiles. Their chemical weapons programs focused on sarin, VX/VR, and mustard gas. Biotechnology was used by both countries to enhance pathogens, such as lethal agents that cause anthrax and incapacitating agents that cause glanders. Both countries briefly tested radiological weapons, but no state is known to have mass-produced or used them. The US Nunn–Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program was largely successful in securing ex-Soviet weapons of mass destruction infrastructure and personnel following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, and denuclearizing Belarus, Ukraine, and Kazakhstan.
The 1995 Tokyo subway sarin attack, September 11 attacks, and 2001 anthrax attacks brought a heightened concern of weapons of mass destruction and terrorism. Ba'athist Iraq had carried out mustard and nerve agent attacks in the Iran–Iraq War, killing thousands of civilians and troops. Following the Iraq disarmament crisis of the early 2000s, false claims by a US-led coalition that Iraq was maintaining its weapons of mass destruction programs played a major role in justifying the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Ba'athist Syria used chemical weapons during the Syrian civil war, killing thousands and prompting US-led airstrikes in 2017 and 2018.
As of 2025, nine countries possess nuclear weapons, while 185 countries pledge not to acquire them via the 1968 Non-Proliferation Treaty. The 1925 Geneva Protocol outlawed the use, but not stockpiling, of chemical and biological weapons. The 1972 Biological Weapons Convention and 1993 Chemical Weapons Convention seek complete elimination by all parties, but are challenged by violations and by a small number of non-signatory states such as Egypt, Israel, and North Korea.

Title: Weapons (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weapons_(album)
Summary: Weapons is the fifth and final studio album by the Welsh rock band Lostprophets. It was released through Epic Records on 30 March 2012. 
It was the band's lone record to feature drummer Luke Johnson, though former drummer Ilan Rubin appears on the hidden title track and on archival material included on the album's "deluxe edition". Weapons was also the last album to be released by the band before lead vocalist Ian Watkins was convicted and imprisoned for numerous child sex offences, which led to their disbandment in 2013.
Like the earlier Liberation Transmission (2006), the album's artwork features a passage on Latin on the front cover, which reads deus velox nex (God is swift death).

Title: Spider-Man: Beyond the Spider-Verse
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spider-Man:_Beyond_the_Spider-Verse
Summary: Spider-Man: Beyond the Spider-Verse is an upcoming American animated superhero film focused on the Marvel Comics character Miles Morales / Spider-Man. Directed by Bob Persichetti and Justin K. Thompson from a screenplay by the writing team of Phil Lord and Christopher Miller alongside David Callaham, it is the direct sequel to Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse (2023) and the final installment in the Spider-Verse trilogy. Shameik Moore stars as the voice of Miles, alongside an ensemble cast featuring Hailee Steinfeld, Brian Tyree Henry, Lauren Vélez, Jake Johnson, Jason Schwartzman, Karan Soni, John Mulaney, Kimiko Glenn, Daniel Kaluuya, Mahershala Ali, Nicolas Cage, and Oscar Isaac. The film continues from the cliffhanger ending of Across the Spider-Verse, with Miles trapped in an alternate universe as he tries to save his family. Produced by Columbia Pictures and Sony Pictures Animation, it is set for distribution by Sony Pictures Releasing.
Sony began developing a sequel to Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse before its 2018 release. During production, the sequel was split into two films—Across the Spider-Verse and Beyond the Spider-Verse—that were being worked on concurrently. The latter was initially given a March 2024 release date, before the former was prioritized, its script and animation were significantly changed, and the 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike suspended production and delayed its release. After the second film's release and the end of the strike, production resumed in December 2023. The writers and directors were revealed a year later, after they had worked on the previous installments, and a new release date was announced in March 2025.
Spider-Man: Beyond the Spider-Verse is scheduled to be released in the United States on June 18, 2027.

Title: Weapons (2025 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weapons_(2025_film)
Summary: Weapons is a 2025 American supernatural mystery horror film directed, written, produced, and co-scored by Zach Cregger. It stars an ensemble cast including Josh Brolin, Julia Garner, Alden Ehrenreich, Austin Abrams, Cary Christopher, Toby Huss, Benedict Wong, and Amy Madigan. Its plot follows the case of seventeen children from the same classroom who mysteriously run away on the same night at the same time.
After the critical and commercial success of his film Barbarian (2022), Cregger began working on the spec script for Weapons. It prompted a bidding war between several studios, with New Line Cinema emerging as the victor. Initially intended to film from May to July 2023, several actors dropped out due to conflicts caused by the 2023 Hollywood labor disputes. Casting resumed in February 2024 and ended in May of that year. Filming began in Atlanta and concluded in July.
Weapons was released in theaters in North America on August 8, 2025, by Warner Bros. Pictures. The film received positive reviews from critics and was a box-office success, grossing $270 million against a $38 million budget. Madigan's performance was singled out for praise, winning the Academy Award and the Actor Award (SAG Award) for Best Supporting Actress, and was also nominated for a Golden Globe Award in the same category. 
A prequel, titled Gladys, is scheduled to be released on September 8, 2028.