Title: Hybe
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hybe
Summary: Hybe Co., Ltd. (Korean: 주식회사 하이브), commonly known as simply Hybe (Korean: 하이브; stylized in all caps), is a South Korean multinational conglomerate. Founded as Big Hit Entertainment, Hybe has grown from a traditional music entertainment company into a tech-driven lifestyle platform corporation.

Title: Jung Kook
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jung_Kook
Summary: Jeon Jung-kook (Korean: 전정국; born September 1, 1997), known professionally as Jung Kook, is a South Korean singer and songwriter. He rose to prominence as a member  of South Korean boy band BTS. He has performed three solo songs as part of BTS' discography—"Begin" in 2016, "Euphoria" in 2018, and "My Time" in 2020—all of which charted on South Korea's Gaon Digital Chart. He also recorded the soundtrack song "Stay Alive" for the BTS-based webtoon 7Fates: Chakho.
In 2022, Jung Kook featured on American singer Charlie Puth's single "Left and Right", which peaked at number 22 on the US Billboard Hot 100. Later that year, he became the first South Korean artist to release an official song for the FIFA World Cup soundtrack with "Dreamers", which he subsequently performed at the 2022 FIFA World Cup opening ceremony. In 2023, Jung Kook released his debut solo single "Seven" featuring Latto, which broke numerous chart and streaming records. It debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100, the Global 200, and the Global Excl. U.S. charts, making him the first Korean solo artist to do so, and eventually became the fastest song in history to surpass 1 billion streams on Spotify. His follow-up single "3D", featuring Jack Harlow, debuted at number five on both the Hot 100 and the UK Singles Chart, making Jung Kook the first South Korean solo artist to achieve two consecutive top-five entries on the latter.

Title: Jung Kook discography
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jung_Kook_discography
Summary: South Korean singer Jung Kook has released one studio album and twelve singles. As a member of South Korean boy band BTS, he performed the solo songs "Begin", "Euphoria", and "My Time" for the band and recorded the soundtrack song "Stay Alive" for the BTS-based webtoon 7Fates: Chakho. In 2022, he featured on American singer Charlie Puth's single "Left and Right" and released the single "Dreamers" for the FIFA World Cup soundtrack.
Jung Kook made his official solo debut in 2023 with the single "Seven" featuring Latto, which debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100, the Global 200, and the Global Excl. U.S. charts, making him the first Korean solo artist to do so. His follow-up single "3D", featuring Jack Harlow, debuted at number one on the Global 200 and Global Excl. U.S., and number five on the Hot 100 and the UK Singles Chart, making Jung Kook the first South Korean solo artist to achieve two consecutive top-five entries on the latter. His third single "Standing Next to You" also debuted at number one on the Global 200 and Global Excl. U.S. and at number five on the Hot 100. All three singles supported his debut studio album, Golden (2023), which sold over 2.7 million copies worldwide, debuted atop the South Korean, Belgian, French, Lithuanian, and Japanese album charts, and reached the top 10 in 14 countries including the US Billboard 200.

Title: Dreamers (Jung Kook song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dreamers_(Jung_Kook_song)
Summary: "Dreamers" is a 2022 song by South Korean singer Jung Kook of BTS and Qatari singer Fahad Al Kubaisi. Part of the 2022 FIFA World Cup official soundtrack, the song was released on November 20 to coincide with the first match of that year's FIFA World Cup and its opening ceremony.

Title: Golden (Jung Kook album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_(Jung_Kook_album)
Summary: Golden is the debut studio album by South Korean singer Jung Kook of BTS, released on November 3, 2023, through Big Hit Music. Primarily a pop record and an all English album, it was met with generally favorable reviews from critics. It features guest appearances by Jack Harlow, Major Lazer, Latto and DJ Snake. The album was supported by the pre-release singles "Seven" and "3D", as well as "Standing Next to You", which was released concurrently with the album, and "Yes or No", which was sent to Italian radio in 2024.