Title: Real Madrid CF
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_Madrid_CF
Summary: Real Madrid Club de Fútbol (Spanish pronunciation: [reˈal maˈðɾið ˈkluβ ðe ˈfuðβol] ) is a Spanish professional association football club based in Madrid. The club competes in La Liga, the top tier of Spanish football.
Founded in 1902 as Madrid Football Club, the club has traditionally worn a white home kit. The honorific title 'Real' is Spanish for "Royal" and was bestowed by Alfonso XIII in 1920. Real Madrid have played their home matches in the Bernabéu since 1947. Unlike most European sporting clubs, Real Madrid's members have owned and operated the club throughout its history. The club is one of the most widely supported in the world and the most followed sports club across social media. It was estimated to be worth $6.6 billion in 2024, making it the world's most valuable football club. In 2024, it became the first football club to make €1 billion ($1.08bn) in revenue. The club anthem is the "Hala Madrid y nada más".
Real Madrid is one of the most successful football clubs in the world and the most decorated club in Europe. In Spanish domestic football, the club has won 71 trophies; a record 36 La Liga titles, 20 Copa del Rey, 13 Supercopa de España, a Copa Eva Duarte and a Copa de la Liga. In International football, Real Madrid have won a record 35 trophies: a record 15 European Cup/UEFA Champions League titles, a record six UEFA Super Cups, two UEFA Cups, a joint-record two Latin Cups, a record one Iberoamerican Cup, and a record nine world championships. Madrid has been ranked joint first a record number of times in the IFFHS Club World Ranking. In UEFA's club ranking, Madrid ranks first in the all-time club ranking.
As one of the three founding members of La Liga never relegated from the top division along with Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao, Real Madrid has many long-standing rivalries, most notably El Clásico with Barcelona and El Derbi Madrileño with Atlético Madrid. The club established itself as a major force in Spanish and European football during the 1950s and 60s, winning five consecutive and six overall European Cups. This success was replicated on the domestic front, with Madrid winning 12 league titles in 16 years. This team, which included Alfredo Di Stéfano, Ferenc Puskás, Paco Gento and Raymond Kopa, is considered by some in the sport to be the greatest of all time. Real Madrid is known for its Galácticos policy, which involves signing the world's best players, such as Ronaldo, Zinedine Zidane and David Beckham to create a superstar team. In 2009, Madrid signed Cristiano Ronaldo for a record-breaking £80 million (€94 million) from Manchester United; he became the club's and history's all-time top goal-scorer. In addition to signing star players, Real Madrid develops homegrown talent through its academy, La Fábrica, which has produced notable graduates such as Raúl, Iker Casillas, and Dani Carvajal, and has supplied the highest number of players to Europe's top five leagues.
Real Madrid was recognized as the greatest football club of the 20th century, receiving the FIFA Centennial Order of Merit in 2004. Real Madrid has the highest number of participations in the European Cup/UEFA Champions League (55), a tournament in which they hold the records for most wins, draws and goals scored. Real Madrid is the only club to have won three consecutive titles in the European Cup/UEFA Champions League twice, achieving this in 1956-58 and 2016-18. In 2024, they won a record-extending 15th Champions League title (the sixth in eleven seasons), recognized as such by Guinness World Records. Real Madrid is the first club across all Europe's top-five leagues to win 100 trophies in all competitions. As of May 2026, Real Madrid are ranked 2nd in UEFA club rankings, and first over 2013–23 coefficient.

Title: Santiago Bernabéu
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santiago_Bernab%C3%A9u
Summary: Santiago Bernabéu de Yeste (Spanish pronunciation: [sanˈtjaɣo βeɾnaˈβew ˈʝeste]; 8 June 1895 – 2 June 1978) was a Spanish football player, coach, and administrator who played for Real Madrid as a forward, later serving as the club's manager and then president. He is widely regarded as one of the most important figures in the history of Real Madrid, having served as its president for 34 years and 264 days, from 11 September 1943 until his death on 2 June 1978.
Under Bernabéu's leadership, Real Madrid became a dominant team both on national and international level, with its influence stretching beyond the football pitch. The club's current stadium is named in his honour.

Title: Florentino Pérez
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florentino_P%C3%A9rez
Summary: Florentino Pérez Rodríguez (Spanish pronunciation: [floɾenˈtino ˈpeɾeθ roˈðɾiɣeθ]; born 8 March 1947) is a Spanish businessman and politician. He is the president of the football club Real Madrid, as well as chairman and CEO of ACS Group, a civil engineering company.
Pérez began his professional career in the private sector in 1971 and was a member of the political parties Union of the Democratic Centre and the secretary-general of the Democratic Reformist Party, from 1979 to 1986. He has been president of Real Madrid from 2000 to 2006 and from 2009 onwards. During his first six years as president, he implemented the Galácticos policy of bringing the world's best players to Real Madrid. In his first four seasons in charge, he bought Luís Figo from arch-rivals Barcelona, Zinedine Zidane for a then-world record transfer fee, Ronaldo, and David Beckham. From the 2003–04 season to the 2005–06 season, the club did not win a trophy, leading Pérez to resign in 2006.
He assumed office again in 2009 and restarted the Galácticos policy. He brought to the club Kaká, Xabi Alonso, Karim Benzema, and Cristiano Ronaldo, the latter for a then-world record fee, followed by Gareth Bale in 2013. Over the course of eleven seasons from 2013 to 2024, the club won six Champions League titles. Real Madrid has won a record 7 Champions League titles during his presidency. Pérez is the most successful president in the history of Real Madrid, winning 37 titles during his presidency, surpassing Santiago Bernabéu, who won 32.

Title: Real Madrid Castilla
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_Madrid_Castilla
Summary: Real Madrid Castilla Club de Fútbol or Real Madrid B is a Spanish football team that plays in Primera Federación – Group 2. It is Real Madrid's reserve team. They play their home games at the Alfredo Di Stéfano Stadium with a capacity of 6,000 seats.
Reserve teams in Spain play in the same league system as their senior team rather than a separate league. Reserve teams, however, cannot play in the same division as their senior team. Therefore, Real Madrid Castilla are ineligible for promotion to the La Liga as long as Real Madrid plays there. Consequently, they must play at least one level below their main side and they are not eligible to play in the Copa del Rey. In addition, only under-23 players, or under-25 players with a professional contract, can switch between senior and reserve teams.

Title: El Clásico
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Cl%C3%A1sico
Summary: El Clásico (in Spanish, also in lowercase letters; Spanish pronunciation: [el ˈklasiko]) or El Clàssic (in Catalan, pronounced [əl ˈklasik]), both meaning "The Classic", is the name given to any football match between rival clubs Barcelona and Real Madrid. Originally referring to competitions held in the Spanish championship, the term now includes every match between the clubs, such as those in the UEFA Champions League, Copa del Rey, and Supercopa de España. It is considered one of sport's fiercest rivalries, and its matches have a global audience of hundreds of millions. A fixture known for its intensity, it has featured memorable goal celebrations from both teams, often involving mockery from both sides.
The fixture is heavily politicised due to the Catalan independence movement, with the two clubs often identified with opposing political positions; Madrid is the capital and largest city of Spain and hence identified with Spanish unionism, while Barcelona is the capital and largest city of the autonomous community of Catalonia and hence identified with Catalan separatism. They are among the wealthiest and most successful football clubs in the world; in 2024, Forbes ranked Real Madrid and Barcelona among the most valuable football teams in the world, in first and third place respectively.
As of the match played on 10 May 2026, the teams are tied in head-to-head results in official competitive matches with 106 wins each, along with 52 draws. Along with Athletic Bilbao, they are the only clubs in La Liga never to have been relegated.