Title: AMA Superbike Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMA_Superbike_Championship
Summary: AMA Superbike Championship is an American motorcycle racing series based in the United States. The series is organized by MotoAmerica and is sanctioned by the American Motorcyclist Association (AMA) as well as the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM). For most of its existence it has been considered the premier motorcycle road racing series in the United States. The championship features “highly modified, production based liter class motorcycles” competing at premier tracks across the country.
The AMA Superbike Championship can trace its roots back to the AMA Open Production event that began in 1973. AMA Open Production was hosted alongside the AMA Road Race National at Laguna Seca Raceway in 1973 and 1974. By 1976, the event became a major class, appearing at all 4 AMA Grand Nationals that season, and its name was changed to Superbike Production. In 1986, the AMA made the Grand National Championship into a dirt-track-only series splitting off the road-racing rounds into their own series, the Superbike Production events became the AMA Superbike Championship. In 2015 MotoAmerica became the series organizer, resulting in all AMA Superbike Championship events being held under the MotoAmerica name.

Title: Ducati Corse
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ducati_Corse
Summary: Ducati Corse (Italian pronunciation: [duˈkaːti]) is the racing division of Ducati.

Title: Superbike World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superbike_World_Championship
Summary: Superbike World Championship (also known as WorldSBK, SBK, World Superbike, WSB, or WSBK) is a silhouette road racing series based on heavily modified production sports motorcycles.
The championship was founded in 1988. The Superbike World Championship consists of a series of rounds held on permanent racing facilities. Each round has two full length races and, from 2019, an additional ten-lap sprint race known as the Superpole race. The results of all three races are combined to determine three annual World Championships, one for riders, one for manufacturers and, as of 2024, a Teams World Championship.
The motorcycles that race in the championship are tuned versions of motorcycles available for sale to the public, by contrast with MotoGP where purpose built machines are used. MotoGP is the motorcycle world's equivalent of Formula One, whereas Superbike racing is similar to sports car racing.
Europe is Superbike World Championship's traditional centre and leading market. However, rounds have been held in the United States, Canada, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Japan, Argentina, Australia, New Zealand, Qatar, and South Africa and the series plans on keeping extra-European circuits in rotation. 
The championship is regulated by the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM) and organised by MotoGP Sports Entertainment Group.

Title: Toprak Razgatlıoğlu
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toprak_Razgatl%C4%B1o%C4%9Flu
Summary: Toprak Razgatlıoğlu (Turkish pronunciation: ['topɾak 'ɾazgatɫɯ'oːɫu]; born 16 October 1996) is a Turkish motorcycle road racer who, from 2026, rides for Prima Pramac Yamaha MotoGP in the MotoGP World Championship. Razgatlıoğlu holds three Superbike World Championship titles: 2021 with the Yamaha factory Superbike team, ending Jonathan Rea's six-year reign, 2024 and 2025 with the BMW Motorrad WorldSBK Team, the manufacturer's first two titles. He is the first Turkish Superbike World Champion and the rider with the most wins for both Yamaha and BMW in the championship, with 37 and 39 total victories, respectively.
Razgatlıoğlu is well known for his 'stoppie' celebration. He is also known for his dominating record, being called a Superbike equivalent to Marc Márquez. He joined Pramac Racing for the 2026 season, the year before the 2027 Regulation change, and became the first MotoGP rider hailing from Turkey. He is the first WSBK rider since Loris Baz to switch to MotoGP and the first WSBK champion since Ben Spies.

Title: 2026 MotoGP World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_MotoGP_World_Championship
Summary: The 2026 FIM MotoGP World Championship is the premier class of the 78th Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM) Road Racing World Championship season, the highest level of competition in motorcycle road racing. It is the final season of the premier class using 1000cc engines and Michelin series-specified tyres, before switching to new 850cc engine regulations and tyres sourced from Pirelli, among other technical changes, from the 2027 season onwards.
MotoGP introduced a new racing class starting in the 2026 season, the "Harley-Davidson Bagger World Cup", featuring bagger-style motorcycles modified for racing, competing in six selected rounds of the MotoGP calendar across Europe and North America.