Title: List of current heads of state and government
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_current_heads_of_state_and_government
Summary: This is a list of current heads of state and heads of government. In some cases, mainly in presidential systems, one leader is head of state and head of government. In other cases, mainly in semi-presidential and parliamentary systems, the head of state and the head of government are different people. In semi-presidential and parliamentary systems, the head of government (i.e. executive) role is fulfilled by the listed head of government and the head of state.
In one-party states, the ruling party's leader (e.g. the general secretary) is usually the de facto top leader of the state, though sometimes this leader also holds the presidency or premiership. In Afghanistan, Andorra, Iran, and Vatican City (Holy See), a clergy member also acts as the head of state. In Afghanistan, this is the Supreme Leader; in Andorra, this is the bishop of Urgell, Co-prince of Andorra; and in the Vatican City, this is the pope.
The list includes the names of recently elected or appointed heads of state and government who will take office on an appointed date, as presidents-elect and prime ministers–designate, and those leading a government-in-exile if internationally recognised.

Title: Governor of Guangdong
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Guangdong
Summary: The governor of Guangdong, officially the Governor of the Guangdong Provincial People's Government, is the head of Guangdong Province and leader of the Guangdong Provincial People's Government.
The governor is elected by the Guangdong Provincial People's Congress, and responsible to it and its Standing Committee. The governor is a provincial level official and is responsible for the overall decision-making of the provincial government. The governor is assisted by an executive vice governor as well as several vice governors. The governor generally serves as the deputy secretary of the Guangdong Provincial Committee of the Chinese Communist Party and as a member of the CCP Central Committee. The governor is the second highest-ranking official in the province after the secretary of the CCP Guangdong Committee. The current governor is Meng Fanli since 11 October 2025.

Title: Governor of Shanxi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Shanxi
Summary: The governor of Shanxi, officially the Governor of the Shanxi Provincial People's Government, is the head of Shanxi Province and leader of the Shanxi Provincial People's Government.
The governor is elected by the Shanxi Provincial People's Congress, and responsible to it and its Standing Committee. The governor is a provincial level official and is responsible for the overall decision-making of the provincial government. The governor is assisted by an executive vice governor as well as several vice governors. The governor generally serves as the deputy secretary of the Shanxi Provincial Committee of the Chinese Communist Party and as a member of the CCP Central Committee. The governor is the second highest-ranking official in the province after the secretary of the CCP Shanxi Committee. The current governor is Jin Xiangjun, who took office on 29 December 2022.

Title: Governor of Zhejiang
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Zhejiang
Summary: The governor of Zhejiang, officially the Governor of the Zhejiang Provincial People's Government, is the head of Zhejiang Province and leader of the Zhejiang Provincial People's Government.
The governor is elected by the Zhejiang Provincial People's Congress, and responsible to it and its Standing Committee. The governor is a provincial level official and is responsible for the overall decision-making of the provincial government. The governor is assisted by an executive vice governor as well as several vice governors. The governor generally serves as the deputy secretary of the Zhejiang Provincial Committee of the Chinese Communist Party and as a member of the CCP Central Committee. The governor is the second highest-ranking official in the province after the secretary of the CCP Zhejiang Committee. The current governor is Liu Jie, who took office on 18 December 2024.

Title: Governor of Fujian
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Fujian
Summary: The governor of Fujian, officially the Governor of the Fujian Provincial People's Government, is the head of Fujian Province and leader of the Fujian Provincial People's Government.
The governor is elected by the Fujian Provincial People's Congress, and responsible to it and its Standing Committee. The governor is a provincial level official and is responsible for the overall decision-making of the provincial government. The governor is assisted by an executive vice governor as well as several vice governors. The governor traditionally serves as the deputy secretary of the Fujian Provincial Committee of the Chinese Communist Party and as a member of the CCP Central Committee. The governor is the second highest-ranking official in the province after the secretary of the CCP Fujian Committee. The current governor is Zhao Long, who took office on 22 October 2021.