Title: ABBA
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ABBA
Summary: ABBA (  AB-ə, Swedish: [ˈâbːa]) were a Swedish pop music group formed in Stockholm in 1972 by Agnetha Fältskog, Björn Ulvaeus, Benny Andersson and Anni-Frid Lyngstad. They are among the most renowned and commercially successful musical groups in history.
In 1974, ABBA won the Eurovision Song Contest for Sweden with their song "Waterloo", which was chosen as the best song in the competition's history during its 50th anniversary celebration in 2005. During their peak, ABBA comprised two married couples: Fältskog and Ulvaeus, and Lyngstad and Andersson. As their fame grew, their personal lives suffered, leading to the dissolution of both marriages. These relationship changes were reflected in the group's later music, which featured darker and more introspective lyrics.
After ABBA disbanded in December 1982, Andersson and Ulvaeus continued their success writing music for stage, musicals and films, while Fältskog and Lyngstad pursued solo careers. Ten years after the group's breakup, the compilation ABBA Gold was released and became a worldwide best-seller. In 1999, ABBA's music was adapted into Mamma Mia!, a stage musical that toured globally. As of October 2024, it remains one of the ten longest-running productions on Broadway (closed in 2015) and the West End (still running). A film of the same name, released in 2008, became the highest-grossing film in the United Kingdom that year. A sequel, Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again, was released in 2018.
ABBA are one of the best-selling music acts of all time, with sales exceeding 150 million. Their compilation album ABBA Gold is, as of April 2026, certified platinum over 128 times across more than 28 countries/territories worldwide and has been in the UK top 100 album chart for a record 1,248 weeks. The group are ranked as the third-best-selling singles artist in the United Kingdom, with a total of 11.3 million singles sold as of 3 November 2012. In May 2023, ABBA received the BRIT Billion Award, which honours artists who have surpassed one billion UK streams in their careers. They were the first group from a non-English-speaking country to achieve consistent success on the charts in English-speaking countries, including the United Kingdom, Australia, the United States, Ireland, Canada, New Zealand and South Africa. ABBA are recognised as the best-selling Swedish music act of all time and the best-selling band originating from continental Europe. The group achieved eight consecutive number-one albums in the UK and also enjoyed significant success in Latin America, recording a collection of their hit songs in Spanish.
In 2016, the group reunited and started working on a digital avatar concert tour. Newly recorded songs were announced in 2018. Voyage, their first new album in 40 years, was released on 5 November 2021, to positive critical reviews and strong sales. ABBA Voyage, a concert residency featuring ABBA as virtual avatars, opened in May 2022 at the purpose built ABBA Arena in London to universal acclaim. The seven times weekly concerts passed the 4 million attendance mark in April 2026 and are estimated to have contributed in excess of £2 billion to the UK economy. ABBA Voyage concerts, in their fourth year, continue to play to packed houses.

Title: Olivia Newton-John
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Olivia_Newton-John
Summary: Dame Olivia Newton-John (26 September 1948 – 8 August 2022) was a British and Australian singer, songwriter and actress. With over 100 million records sold, Newton-John is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, as well as the highest-selling female Australian recording artist of all time.
In 1978, Newton-John starred in the musical film Grease, which was the highest-grossing musical film at the time and whose soundtrack remains one of the world's best-selling albums. It features two major hit duets with co-star John Travolta: "You're the One That I Want"—which is one of the best-selling singles of all time—and "Summer Nights". This soundtrack also includes her solo "Hopelessly Devoted to You." . Her signature solo recordings include the Record of the Year Grammy winner "I Honestly Love You" (1974) and "Physical" (1981)—Billboard's highest-ranking Hot 100 single of the 1980s. Other defining hit singles include "If Not for You" and "Banks of the Ohio" (both 1971), "Let Me Be There" (1973), "If You Love Me (Let Me Know)" (1974), "Have You Never Been Mellow" (1975), "Sam" (1977), "Hopelessly Devoted to You" (1978; also from Grease), "A Little More Love" (1978), "Twist of Fate" (1983) and, from the 1980 film Xanadu, "Magic" and "Xanadu" (with the Electric Light Orchestra).
Newton-John's accolades include four Grammy Awards, a Daytime Emmy Award, nine Billboard Music Awards, six American Music Awards, a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame and an induction into the ARIA Hall of Fame. She scored fifteen top-ten singles, including five number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100, and two number-one albums on the Billboard 200: If You Love Me, Let Me Know (1974) and Have You Never Been Mellow (1975). Eleven of her singles (including two Platinum) and fourteen of her albums (including two Platinum and four 2× Platinum) have been certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). She was appointed Officer of the Order of Australia in 2006 and Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2020.
Newton-John, who had breast cancer three times, was an advocate and sponsor for breast cancer research. In 2012, the Olivia Newton-John Cancer & Wellness Centre at the Austin Hospital opened in her home town of Melbourne; in 2015, the facility was rechristened the Olivia Newton-John Cancer Wellness & Research Centre. She was also an activist for environmental and animal rights causes.

Title: The Name of the Game (ABBA song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Name_of_the_Game_(ABBA_song)
Summary: "The Name of the Game" is a song by the Swedish recording group ABBA, taken from their fifth studio album The Album (1977). It was released on 14 October 1977 by Polar Music as the album's lead single. Benny Andersson and Björn Ulvaeus both wrote and produced the track, with Stig Anderson co-writing; this marked the last time Anderson co-wrote a single. Agnetha Fältskog and Anni-Frid Lyngstad both share lead vocals, but also have solo verses. The song was a notable departure for the group, featuring a more progressive and art pop song alongside the usual Europop influences. "Hole in Your Soul" was originally pegged as a single, but was later shelved in favor of "The Name of the Game". Ulvaeus remarked of how the group were initially worried about releasing the single due to its length.
The single received acclaim from music critics, and has continually been ranked as among ABBA's best songs. While not as successful as previous singles, "The Name of the Game" still proved a chart hit, topping the UK Singles Chart for a month, and also charting in the top ten across nearly all of Europe and Australasia. It also nearly became ABBA's third top ten single in the United States, stalling at number 12 on the Billboard Hot 100. The single has gone on to be certified Gold by the British Phonographic Industry for 500,000 certified units sold. It is included on ABBA Gold (1992).

Title: Katy Perry
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Katy_Perry
Summary: Katheryn Elizabeth Hudson (born October 25, 1984), known professionally as Katy Perry, is an American singer, songwriter, and television personality. Known for her influence on pop music and her camp style, she has been dubbed the "Queen of Camp" by Vogue and Rolling Stone.
At age 16, Perry released the unsuccessful gospel album Katy Hudson (2001) under Red Hill Records. After moving to Los Angeles, she signed to Capitol Records and rose to fame with the pop rock album One of the Boys (2008). Its lead single, "I Kissed a Girl", topped the U.S. Billboard Hot 100. Perry's disco-influenced pop record Teenage Dream (2010) became the only album by a woman to spawn five U.S. number-one singles: "California Gurls", "Teenage Dream", "Firework", "E.T.", and "Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)". Its reissue, subtitled The Complete Confection (2012), produced the U.S. number-one single "Part of Me". The dance-inspired Prism (2013) yielded two U.S. number-one singles, "Roar" and "Dark Horse". Perry's subsequent albums, Witness (2017), Smile (2020) and 143 (2024), were met with varied critical and commercial success.
Perry is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with estimated sales of over 151 million records worldwide. She has seven diamond certifications from the Recording Industry Association of America. The world's highest-paid female musician in 2015 and 2018, she was named by Billboard as the twenty-fifth greatest pop star of the 21st century. Her accolades include 20 Guinness World Records, five Billboard Music Awards, five American Music Awards (including the Special Achievement Award), a Brit Award, a Juno Award, and seven MTV Video Music Awards (including the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award). Perry was the first artist to have multiple videos reach one billion views on YouTube. With an estimated net worth of $360 million, she is among the world's wealthiest musicians.
Outside of music, Perry released an autobiographical documentary titled Katy Perry: Part of Me in 2012, voiced Smurfette in The Smurfs film series (2011–2013), launched her own shoe line Katy Perry Collections in 2017 and flew into space aboard Blue Origin NS-31 in 2025. She served as a judge on American Idol from the sixteenth season in 2018 to the twenty-second season in 2024. She is an advocate for LGBT rights and women's rights, and was named a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador in 2013. Her philanthropy and activism focus on children's education and HIV/AIDS awareness.

Title: Imagine (song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imagine_(song)
Summary: "Imagine" is a song by the English musician John Lennon from his 1971 album of the same name. The lyrics encourage listeners to imagine a world of peace, beginning with living without religion and its concepts, without economic materialism, and without borders separating nations. Shortly before his death, Lennon said that much of the song's lyrics and content came from his wife, Yoko Ono; in 2017, she received credit as a co-writer.
Lennon and Ono co-produced the song with Phil Spector. Recording began at Lennon's home studio at Tittenhurst Park, England, in May 1971, with final overdubs taking place at the Record Plant, in New York City, during July. In October, Lennon released "Imagine" as a single in the United States, where it peaked at number one on the Record World Top 100, number two on the Cashbox Top 100 and number three on the Billboard Hot 100. The song was first issued as a single in Britain in 1975, to promote the compilation Shaved Fish, and reached number six on the UK Singles Chart that year. It later topped the chart following Lennon's murder in 1980.
"Imagine" has consistently been widely praised since its release, while also garnering controversy due to its lyrics. BMI named "Imagine" one of the 100 most performed songs of the 20th century. In 1999, it was ranked number 30 on the RIAA's list of the 365 "Songs of the Century", earned a Grammy Hall of Fame Award, and was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's "500 Songs that Shaped Rock and Roll". Rolling Stone ranked it number 3 in its 2004 list of the "500 Greatest Songs of All Time", repositioned to number 19 in the 2021 revision. Meanwhile, a UK survey conducted by the Guinness World Records British Hit Singles Book in 2002 named it the second-best single of all time. Since 2005, the song has been either played or performed in the final minutes leading up to the New Year's Times Square Ball Drop event in New York City. In 2023, the song was selected for preservation in the United States National Recording Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
"Imagine" is the best-selling single of his solo career. It has sold more than 1.7 million copies in the UK. More than 200 artists have performed or covered the song, including Madonna, Stevie Wonder, Joan Baez, Lady Gaga, David Bowie, Elton John and Diana Ross. After "Imagine" was featured at the 2012 Summer Olympics, the song re-entered the UK Top 40, reaching number 18, and was presented as a theme song in the opening ceremony of the 2022 Winter Olympics. The song has remained a source of controversy since its initial release over its lyrics.