Title: Gennaro Gattuso
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gennaro_Gattuso
Summary: Gennaro Ivan Gattuso  (Italian pronunciation: [dʒenˈnaːro ɡatˈtuːzo]; born 9 January 1978) is an Italian professional football manager and former player who is currently the head coach of Lazio.
As a player, Gattuso mainly played in the centre as a defensive midfielder, although he was also capable of playing out wide. He initially played for Perugia, Salernitana and Rangers, though he is mostly remembered for his time with AC Milan in Serie A, where he won the UEFA Champions League in 2002–03 and 2006–07, the Coppa Italia in 2002–03, and also the Serie A title in 2003–04 and 2010–11. In addition to these titles, he also won two Italian Supercups, two UEFA Supercups, and a FIFA Club World Cup. At international level, Gattuso played for the Italy national football team at the 2000 Summer Olympics, three FIFA World Cups, two UEFA European Championships, and the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup.
Gattuso's talismanic midfield partnership with playmaker Andrea Pirlo, both at club and international level, played a key role in Italy's World Cup victory in 2006, as well as Milan's domestic, European and international successes during the mid-2000s. Despite not being blessed with notable technical skills, Gattuso's pace, strength and work-rate complemented and supported Pirlo's composed, creative playing style. In addition to his ball-winning abilities, Gattuso was renowned for his competitive nature and leadership qualities throughout his career, often wearing the captain's armband for Milan following Paolo Maldini's retirement in 2009.
Gattuso's managerial career began as player-coach of his final club, Sion of the Swiss Super League, and he also had short spells in charge of Palermo and OFI. In June 2016, he led Pisa to Serie B promotion. He later coached both the youth side and the first team of his former club Milan between 2017 and 2019, before being appointed as manager of Napoli later that year, where he won his first title as a manager, the 2019–20 Coppa Italia. He then had a brief managerial stint at Fiorentina, resigning after 22 days due to disagreements with the club's board. He was then appointed manager of Spanish La Liga club Valencia but was sacked in January 2023. In September 2023, Gattuso took charge of French Ligue 1 club Marseille before being sacked in February 2024. He subsequently took over at Croatian club Hajduk Split in June 2024 and left after one season in charge. Following that, he was appointed as coach of the Italian national team in June 2025, but resigned in April 2026, following failure to reach the World Cup for the third time in a row after a play-off loss to Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Title: José Mourinho
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jos%C3%A9_Mourinho
Summary: José Mário dos Santos Mourinho Félix (European Portuguese pronunciation: [ʒuˈzɛ moˈɾiɲu]; born 26 January 1963) is a Portuguese professional football manager and former player who is the head coach of La Liga club Real Madrid. Nicknamed "The Special One", he is one of the most decorated managers of all time. Mourinho has won league championships in four countries, is one of only seven managers to have won the European Cup with two clubs, and is the only manager to have won all three current UEFA club competitions.
After an uneventful career as a midfielder in the Portuguese leagues, Mourinho retired from playing aged 24 and moved into coaching. He was first an interpreter for Bobby Robson at Sporting CP and Porto, before gaining success as an assistant at Barcelona under Robson and his successor, Louis van Gaal. After brief managerial stints at Benfica and União de Leiria, Mourinho returned to Porto in 2002, winning two Primeira Liga titles, the Taça de Portugal, the UEFA Cup and the UEFA Champions League. That success earned him a move to Chelsea in 2004, where he won two Premier League titles, an FA Cup, and two League Cups in three seasons, before departing in 2007 amid reports of disagreements with owner Roman Abramovich.
In 2008, Mourinho joined Italian club Inter Milan. He led them to the Serie A title in his first season, before winning a continental treble—Serie A, the Coppa Italia and the UEFA Champions League—in 2010, a first in history for an Italian club. Later that year, he was crowned the inaugural FIFA World Coach of the Year. Mourinho then moved to Real Madrid in Spain, where he won the La Liga title in 2011–12, breaking several domestic records for points, goals scored, and wins in a season. He rejoined Chelsea in 2013, winning another league title and League Cup, but was dismissed in 2015 after a poor run of results.
Mourinho was appointed manager of Manchester United in 2016 and of Tottenham Hotspur in 2019, but both tenures ended acrimoniously. At Manchester United, he won the Community Shield, League Cup and UEFA Europa League in his first season. At Tottenham, he led the team to a League Cup final. He managed Roma from 2021 to 2024, winning the inaugural UEFA Europa Conference League in his first season. This was Roma's first European title and their first trophy since 2008. The achievement made Mourinho the first manager to win a major European competition with four different clubs and the third to win all UEFA club competitions. After spells at Fenerbahçe and a return to Benfica, he returned to Real Madrid in July 2026.
Mourinho was named Portuguese Coach of the Century by the Portuguese Football Federation (FPF) in 2015. Due to his tactical knowledge, charismatic and controversial personality, and a reputation for prioritising results over attractive football, he has drawn comparisons—from both admirers and critics—with Argentine manager Helenio Herrera.

Title: Alexander Isak
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Isak
Summary: Alexander Isak (Swedish pronunciation: [alɛkˈsǎnːdɛr ˈîːsak]; born 21 September 1999) is a Swedish professional footballer who plays as a striker for Premier League club Liverpool and the Sweden national team.
Born and raised in Stockholm, Isak began his professional career with boyhood club AIK in 2016. He then went on to represent Borussia Dortmund and Willem II before signing with Real Sociedad in 2019. In 2022, Isak joined Newcastle United for a club-record fee. In 2025, he signed for Liverpool for £125 million, breaking both the club and British transfer fee records.
A full Swedish international since 2017, Isak has won over 50 caps for his national team, and represented the side at UEFA Euro 2020 and 2026 FIFA World Cup. He is the youngest-ever goalscorer for both AIK and the Sweden national team.
Isak has been frequently described by media sources throughout 2025 as one of the best strikers in the world.

Title: Erling Haaland
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erling_Haaland
Summary: Erling Braut Haaland (born 21 July 2000) is a Norwegian professional footballer who plays as a striker for Premier League club Manchester City and the Norway national team. Widely regarded as one of the best players in the world and the greatest Norwegian player of all time, he is known for his speed, strength, positioning, and finishing inside the box.
Haaland began his senior career with Norwegian clubs Bryne and Molde before signing in 2019 for Red Bull Salzburg, where he won the Austrian Bundesliga and Austrian Cup. His performances in the UEFA Champions League earned him a move in 2020 to Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund, where he won the DFB-Pokal in 2021 and was named Bundesliga Player of the Season. In 2022, Haaland joined Manchester City for a fee of €60 million (£51.2 million) and played a pivotal role in the club's treble-winning debut season, becoming only the second English club to achieve the feat. He finished as the top scorer in the Premier League, FA Cup and Champions League, setting records for the most goals in a Premier League season (36) and the most goals by a Premier League player in all competitions in a single season (52). At City, he has won two Premier League titles and three Premier League Golden Boots.
Haaland's individual honours include the PFA Players' Player of the Year, the UEFA Men's Player of the Year, the IFFHS World's Best Player and the Golden Boy awards, while he also finished runner-up for the Ballon d'Or. He is the only player to win the awards for Premier League Young Player and Player of the Season in the same season. He is also the quickest Premier League player to score eight hat-tricks. He was included in the FIFPRO World 11 for 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024.
Haaland represented Norway at the youth level, winning the Golden Boot at the 2019 FIFA U-20 World Cup, where he scored a record nine goals in a single match. He made his senior international debut for Norway in 2019, and has since scored over 60 goals, making him Norway's all-time top goalscorer. Haaland is the sixth player to reach 50 international goals in under 50 appearances, doing so in 46 games. At the 2026 FIFA World Cup, Haaland was named in the Dream XI as he helped Norway reach the quarter-finals—the nation's best-ever World Cup finish—scoring seven goals.

Title: Ted Lasso
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ted_Lasso
Summary: Ted Lasso ( LASS-oh) is an American sports comedy-drama television series developed by Jason Sudeikis, Bill Lawrence, Brendan Hunt, and Joe Kelly. It is based on a character Sudeikis portrayed in a series of promotional media for NBC Sports' coverage of England's football Premier League. The show follows Ted Lasso, an American college football coach who is hired to coach an English football team, A.F.C. Richmond, whose owner secretly hopes his inexperience will lead it to failure; instead, Lasso's folksy, optimistic leadership proves unexpectedly successful. The first season of ten episodes premiered on Apple TV+ on August 14, 2020, with the first three episodes releasing immediately. A second season of twelve episodes followed on July 23, 2021, with the third season released on March 15, 2023, which was intended to be the final season. It was announced in March 2025 that the series had been renewed for a fourth season, which premiered on August 5, 2026.
The series has received critical acclaim, with particular praise for its performances (notably Sudeikis, Hannah Waddingham, Phil Dunster, Brett Goldstein, Nick Mohammed, and Juno Temple), humor, writing, themes, and uplifting tone. Among other accolades, its first season was nominated for 20 Primetime Emmy Awards, becoming the most nominated first-season comedy in Emmy history. Sudeikis, Waddingham, and Goldstein won for their performances, and the series won the 2021 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series. Sudeikis also won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Musical or Comedy and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Comedy Series. The series repeated all three of those award wins the next year.