Title: List of World Women's Curling Champions
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_World_Women%27s_Curling_Champions
Summary: The following is a list of the winners of the World Women's Curling Championships since the inception of the championships in 1979.
Name of fourth, then third, second, lead and alternate (if have) is listed in the team member list. Name of skip is in Bold.

Title: World Curling Championships
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Curling_Championships
Summary: The World Curling Championships are the annual world championships for curling, organized by the World Curling Federation and contested by national championship teams. There are men's, women's and mixed doubles championships, as well as men's and women's versions of junior and senior championships. There is also a world championship for wheelchair curling. The men's championship started in 1959, while the women's started in 1979. The mixed doubles championship was started in 2008. Since 2005, the men's and women's championships have been held in different venues, with Canada hosting one of the two championships every year: the men's championship in odd years, and the women's championship in even years. Canada has dominated both the men's and women's championships since their inception, although Switzerland, Sweden, Denmark, Germany (West Germany), Scotland, the United States, Norway and China have all won at least one championship.

Title: 2024 Formula One World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Formula_One_World_Championship
Summary: The 2024 FIA Formula One World Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and was the 75th running of the Formula One World Championship. It was recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the governing body of international motorsport, as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. The championship was contested over a record twenty-four Grands Prix held around the world.
Drivers and teams competed for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion, respectively. Defending Drivers' Champion Max Verstappen of Red Bull Racing dominated the opening 10 races with seven wins, however the season as a whole was highly competitive with a record-making six other drivers claiming multiple Grand Prix victories. McLaren driver Lando Norris emerged as Verstappen's closest competitor as the MCL38 began to consistently outperform the RB20. Verstappen maintained his points advantage to win his fourth consecutive Drivers' Championship title at the Las Vegas Grand Prix. Verstappen's title made him only third drivers' champion after Keke Rosberg in 1982 and Nelson Piquet in 1983 to win the drivers' championship with a team that finished 3rd or lower in the constructors' championship, and the second driver after Piquet to win the drivers' championship in a team that did not become constructors' champions on two or more occasions. McLaren surpassed Red Bull and went on to achieve their ninth Constructors' Championship title at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, narrowly ahead of Ferrari by just 14 points. With their first Constructors' Championship victory in 26 years, McLaren became the first constructor other than Red Bull and Mercedes to win the title since Brawn in 2009.

Title: 2026 FIBA Women's Basketball World Cup
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_FIBA_Women%27s_Basketball_World_Cup
Summary: The 2026 FIBA Women's Basketball World Cup was the 20th edition of the FIBA Women's Basketball World Cup, the quadrennial world championship for women's national basketball teams, sanctioned by FIBA. The tournament was hosted in Berlin, Germany, from 4 to 13 September 2026. This was Germany's second time hosting after previously organising the event in 1998, after being awarded the hosting rights in spring 2023.
Sixteen teams took part in the tournament, four more than the previous edition but returning to the same number as was between 1990 and 2018. The hosts automatically qualified. Qualifiers were decided via a mixture of continental champions and teams progressing from the qualifying tournaments. Hungary and Italy returned after long absences.
The United States were the four-time defending champion, and retained the title after a finals win over France. It also represented the second final between those teams at an international event since the 2024 Summer Olympics gold medal match.

Title: 2026 Women's European Volleyball Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Women%27s_European_Volleyball_Championship
Summary: The 2026 Women's European Volleyball Championship, commonly referred to as EuroVolley Women 2026 (and the CEV Trendyol EuroVolley 2026 for sponsorship reasons), was the 34th edition of the Women's European Volleyball Championship, a biennial international volleyball tournament organised by European Volleyball Confederation (CEV). The tournament took place between from 21 August to 6 September 2026 across Azerbaijan, the Czech Republic, Sweden, and Turkey, marking the fourth consecutive time EuroVolley has been hosted by four countries since the multi-country hosting system was first used in 2019.
For the fourth time in a row, 24 teams participated in the tournament. Qualification took place in August 2024 and 2025 to decide the final 12 spots. The four co-hosts qualified automatically. Montenegro made their debut, while Austria and Latvia returned after long absences.
After FIVB's calendar changes starting 2025, this was the first European Championship since 1958 to be held in an even-numbered year.
The winner qualified for the Volleyball tournament in the 2028 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. The top three finishers also qualified for the 2027 FIVB Women's Volleyball World Cup in Canada and United States.
Co-hosts Turkey were the defending champions, having beaten Serbia 3–2 in the final three years earlier, and they successfully retained their title after defeating Italy 3–2 in final, which was held in Istanbul. This was the first time since 2011 that a host nation won the trophy on home soil and the first time that Turkey finally won the title on their home soil, losing both 3–0 to Poland in 2003 final and 3–2 to Serbia in 2019 final, where they were either the hosts or co-hosts.