Title: Netflix
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netflix
Summary: Netflix is an American subscription video on-demand over-the-top streaming television service. The service primarily distributes original and acquired films and television shows from various genres. It is available internationally in multiple languages.
Launched in 2007, nearly a decade after Netflix, Inc. began its pioneering DVD-by-mail movie rental service, Netflix is the most-subscribed video on demand global streaming media service, with 325 million paid memberships in more than 190 countries as of 2026. By 2022, "Netflix Original" productions accounted for half of its library in the United States and the namesake company had ventured into other categories, such as video game publishing of mobile games through its flagship service. As of 2026, Netflix is the 22nd most-visited website in the world, with 21.18% of its traffic coming from the US, followed by the United Kingdom at 6.01%, Canada at 4.94%, and Brazil at 4.24%.

Title: Netflix, Inc.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netflix,_Inc.
Summary: Netflix, Inc. is an American media company founded on August 29, 1997, by Reed Hastings and Marc Randolph in Scotts Valley, California, and currently based in Los Gatos, California, with production offices and stages at the Los Angeles–based Hollywood studios (formerly old Warner Brothers studios) and the Albuquerque Studios (formerly ABQ studios). It owns and operates an eponymous over-the-top subscription video on-demand service, which showcases acquired and original programming as well as third-party content licensed from other production companies and distributors. Netflix is also the first streaming media company to be a member of the Motion Picture Association.
Netflix initially both sold and rented DVDs by mail, but the sales were eliminated within a year to focus on the DVD rental business. In 2007, Netflix introduced streaming media and video on demand. The company expanded to Canada in 2010, followed by Latin America and the Caribbean. In 2011, the service began to acquire and produce original content, beginning with the crime drama Lilyhammer.
The company has been listed on Nasdaq since 2002 and is ranked 117th on the Fortune 500 and 219th on the Forbes Global 2000. It is the largest entertainment/media company by market capitalization as of 2026 estimated at $450 billion. In 2021, Netflix was ranked as the eighth-most trusted brand globally by Morning Consult. During the 2010s, Netflix was the top-performing stock in the S&P 500 stock market index, with a total return of 3,693%.
The company has two CEOs, Greg Peters and Ted Sarandos, who are split between Los Gatos and Los Angeles, respectively. It also operates international offices in Asia, Europe and Latin America including in Canada, France, Brazil, the Netherlands, India, Italy, Japan, Poland, South Korea, and the United Kingdom. The company has production hubs in Los Angeles, Albuquerque, London, Madrid, Vancouver and Toronto.

Title: 365 Days (2020 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/365_Days_(2020_film)
Summary: 365 Days (Polish: 365 dni) is a 2020 Polish erotic thriller film directed by Barbara Białowąs and Tomasz Mandes. Based on the first novel of a trilogy by Blanka Lipińska, the plot follows a young Warsaw woman (Anna-Maria Sieklucka) in a relationship falling for a Sicilian man (Michele Morrone), who imprisons and imposes on her a period of 365 days for her to fall in love with him.
The film was released theatrically in Poland on 7 February 2020 and was later made available on Netflix on 7 June 2020. The film was panned by critics and garnered a rare 0% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Criticism was directed toward its acting, writing, sex scenes, and romanticization of rape and sexual assault, with many critics drawing  unfavorable comparisons to the film Fifty Shades of Grey (2015). It has since been referred to as one of the worst films ever made. However, the film became one of the most watched items in numerous territories on multiple continents, and had one of the longest periods as the most watched item in Netflix's history in the United States. 
A sequel, 365 Days: This Day, was released on Netflix on 27 April 2022, also universally panned.

Title: Simone Ashley
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simone_Ashley
Summary: Simone Ashwini Pillai (born 30 March 1995), known professionally as Simone Ashley, is an English actress. On television, she is best known for her roles as Kate Bridgerton in the Netflix period drama Bridgerton (2022–present) and Olivia Hanan in the comedy-drama Sex Education (2019–2021). Her film roles include Picture This, This Tempting Madness, and The Devil Wears Prada 2.
In 2024, Ashley received the Golden Nymph Award for Most Promising Talent from the Monte-Carlo Television Festival.

Title: The Early Spring
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Early_Spring
Summary: The Early Spring (Chinese: 早春晴朗; pinyin: Zǎo Chūn Qíng Lǎng) is a 2026 Chinese television series starring Jing Boran and Sun Qian. It is adapted from the web novel Zao Chun Qing Lang by Gu Niang Bie Ku, directed by Jiang Ji Zheng and written by Gao Xiao Xian. The story is about a young professional navigating a competitive advertising agency while entangled in a complex romance with her demanding superior. On 26 August 2026, it was released on Youku and Netflix.
The series exceeded 10,000 'Popularity Heat Index' points on Youku throughout its broadcast period, and achieved a historic first for Chinese series by entering the 'Top 3' on Netflix: ranking 4th in 'Top TV Shows Worldwide' and 2nd in the 'Global Non-English TV List'. It was listed as S+ Tier i.e. 'Top Performing Shows' on Yunhe Chart. Upon its release, Jing Boran and Sun Qian were ranked as 'Top C-drama Artists in the International Market', while their portrayals topped the 'Character Index List'.