Princess Beatrice, Mrs Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi (Beatrice Elizabeth Mary; born 8 August 1988), is a member of the British royal family. She is the elder daughter of Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor and Sarah Ferguson, and a niece of King Charles III. Born fifth in the line of succession to the British throne, she is ninth as of 2026.
Beatrice was educated at St George's School, Ascot, before reading history at Goldsmiths, University of London, where she graduated with a BA degree. She has held roles at the Foreign Office and Sony Pictures, and currently serves as Vice-President of Strategic Partnerships at the software company Afiniti. She supports several charitable organisations, including the Teenage Cancer Trust and Outward Bound. 
In 2020, Beatrice married Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi, an English-born property developer with descent from Italian nobility. They have two daughters.


== Early life and education ==

Beatrice was born at 8:18 pm on 8 August 1988 at the Portland Hospital in London, to the then Duke and Duchess of York. She is the fifth grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. Beatrice was baptised in the Chapel Royal at St James's Palace on 20 December. Her godparents were Viscount Linley (her father's cousin, now the 2nd Earl of Snowdon); the Duchess of Roxburghe (now Lady Jane Dawnay); Peter Palumbo (now Lord Palumbo); Gabrielle Greenall (the Hon. Mrs John Greenall); and Carolyn Cotterell. Her name was not announced until almost two weeks after her birth. Her younger sister, Princess Eugenie, was born in 1990.
Beatrice's parents divorced amicably when she was seven years old and agreed to joint custody of their two children. After the divorce, the Queen provided her parents with £1.4 million to establish a trust fund for her and Eugenie. Beatrice and her sister frequently travelled abroad, always with one or both of their parents.
Beatrice began her early education at the independent Upton House School in Windsor in 1991. She and her sister then attended the independent Coworth Park School (now Coworth Flexlands School). Beatrice continued her education at the independent St George's School in Ascot, where she was a pupil from 2000 to 2007. She was diagnosed with dyslexia at the age of seven and went public with the diagnosis in 2005, delaying sitting her GCSE exams for one year. She remained at St George's to take her A-Levels, achieving an 'A' in drama, a 'B' in history, and a 'B' in film studies. She was elected Head Girl in her final year, and was a member of the school choir. Beatrice celebrated her 18th birthday with a masked ball at Windsor Castle in July 2006. Count Nikolai von Bismarck photographed her official birthday portrait.
In September 2008, Beatrice began a three-year course at Goldsmiths, University of London, to read history and history of ideas, graduating in 2011 with a BA (2:1 degree).


== Career ==
During the summer of 2008, Beatrice obtained work experience as a sales assistant at Selfridges. She also worked unpaid in the Foreign Office's press office for a period of time. It was reported in 2008 that she was interested in pursuing a career with the Financial Times website. Beatrice became the first member of the family to appear in a non-documentary film when she had a small, non-speaking role as an extra in The Young Victoria (2009), based on the accession and early reign of her ancestor Queen Victoria. For a period, she was a paid intern at Sony Pictures, but she resigned after the hacking incident that affected Sony Group in late 2014.
In April 2015, it was reported that Beatrice had decided to move to New York City. By April 2017, she held a full-time job and divided her time between London and New York. Known professionally as Beatrice York, she served as Vice‑President of Partnerships and Strategy at Afiniti from 2016 to 2025. As of June 2025, she is a strategic advisor for Afiniti. She also leads an Afiniti programme designed to engage senior business leaders around the world in supporting women in leadership. Her work with the programme includes charity initiatives and speaking engagements. She has also held positions with Scale AI and LionTree Asset Management, and founded By-Eq Limited, an advisory group focused on enhancing emotional intelligence during the rise of artificial intelligence.
In January 2022, it was reported that Beatrice had lost her taxpayer-funded police security in 2011, reportedly after her uncle Charles (then Prince of Wales) intervened as part of a cost-cutting initiative. In 2025, Beatrice launched Purpose Economy Intelligence Ltd alongside Luis Alvarado Martínez, a Spanish‑born executive who has worked at the World Economic Forum since 2021. She serves as the company's director, with the business focusing on developing software for homes and workplaces and providing management consulting services.


== Duties and appointments ==
Beatrice and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh accompanied Queen Elizabeth II to the traditional Royal Maundy services on 5 April 2012 in York. There, Beatrice interacted with parishioners, received flowers from the public, and assisted the Queen in giving Maundy money to the pensioners. In the lead-up to the 2012 Summer Olympics, she welcomed the Olympic flame on the steps of Harewood House near Leeds. In 2013, Beatrice and her sister promoted Britain overseas in Germany. She visited the Isle of Wight in 2014, whose former Governor had been her namesake Princess Beatrice, daughter of Queen Victoria. She also accompanied her father during an official engagement to the United Arab Emirates on 24 November 2014.
On 17 September 2022, during the period of official mourning for Queen Elizabeth II, Beatrice joined her sister and six cousins to mount a 15-minute vigil around the late Queen's coffin as it lay in state at Westminster Hall. On 19 September, she joined other members of the royal family at the state funeral.
Upon the accession of Charles III, her position in the line 