Title: Torre Picasso
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torre_Picasso
Summary: Torre Picasso (Picasso Tower) is a skyscraper in Madrid, Spain designed by Minoru Yamasaki.  From 1988 until 2007 it was the tallest building in Madrid, measuring 515 ft (157 m) and with 43 floors. Torre Picasso is located next to the Pablo Picasso Square, within the commercial complex AZCA along the Paseo de la Castellana.
The building is currently the fifth-largest in Madrid and the tenth-tallest building in Spain.

Title: List of tallest buildings in Barcelona
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tallest_buildings_in_Barcelona
Summary: Barcelona is the capital of Catalonia, the second biggest city in Spain. and the sixth-most populous urban area in the European Union. Barcelona and its metropolitan area has about 15 skyscrapers above 100 m (328 ft).
The recent trend in architecture in recent years has been promoting the construction of high-rise buildings as part of a wider modernisation plan that has been taking place since 1992, the year the Olympic Games were held in Barcelona. Most of the skyscrapers in Barcelona were built in the 70s, 90s, and after 2002.
Barcelona has a few clusters of skyscrapers (outside the historic city center): Diagonal Mar (nearly twenty skyscrapers), Gran Via (about fifteen skyscrapers), around Plaça d'Espanya (a few skyscrapers) and Eix Macià (a few skyscrapers). The other skyscrapers are scattered about the city.

Title: List of tallest buildings by city
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tallest_buildings_by_city
Summary: This list of tallest buildings by city ranks cities by the height of their tallest completed building. Tall buildings, such as skyscrapers, are intended here as enclosed structures with continuously habitable floors. This definition excludes non-building structures, such as observation towers, and radio towers.
A city's tallest building may become iconic symbols of their respective cities, such as The Shard in London, Willis Tower (formerly known as the Sears Tower) in Chicago, and the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur (which remained the tallest buildings in Kuala Lumpur until the completion of Merdeka 118). Over time, they may be recognized as notable tourist attractions and landmarks.
Currently, the five cities whose tallest building is among the tallest in the world are Dubai, Kuala Lumpur, Shanghai, Mecca, and Shenzhen. Most of the cities in the list constructed their tallest building in the 21st century, including all of the top ten.

Title: List of tallest buildings in Hyderabad
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tallest_buildings_in_Hyderabad
Summary: Hyderabad, the capital of the Indian state of Telangana, has the highest number of skyscrapers and high-rise buildings in South India. Hyderabad has one of the largest skylines in South Asia, with 65 completed or topped out skyscrapers taller than 150 metres (492 ft). The three towers of SAS Crown are the tallest buildings in Hyderabad. Standing at 235.3 metres (772 ft) in height with 58 storeys, SAS Crown was the 24th tallest building in India, the second-tallest outside Mumbai, and the tallest in South India when it topped out in October 2024.
Most of Hyderabad's high-rise buildings are located in key business areas such as Gachibowli, Madhapur, HITEC City, Raidurg, Nanakramguda, Kondapur and Manikonda in the western regions of the city. Kukatpally, Nallagandla and Miyapur in the city's northwest also have numerous high-rise buildings. Additionally, large-scale real estate developments are emerging in the southwest regions in newly planned localities such as Neopolis, Kokapet and Gandipet.
The city has around 230 skyscrapers under construction, each with a minimum height of 150 metres (492 ft). The tallest of these is the Candeur Skyline project, which comprises four towers each reaching a height of 244 metres (801 ft).

Title: List of tallest buildings in the European Union
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tallest_buildings_in_the_European_Union
Summary: This list ranks the tallest buildings in the European Union (EU) that stand at least 150 metres (492 ft) tall, based on standard height measurement. This means that spires and other architectural details are included in the official height, but not antenna masts, as it is defined by the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat. Only habitable buildings are ranked, which excludes radio masts and towers, observation towers, cathedrals, steeples, chimneys and other tall architectural structures.
Tall buildings are relatively rare within the EU compared to other regions of the world that have the know-how and capital to build skyscrapers. Only a few cities in the EU have a notable number of high-rises, best known are: Frankfurt, Warsaw, Madrid and Paris. Most skyscrapers in Europe can be found outside of the EU, notably in three cities: London, Moscow and Istanbul. As a result, out of the top 500 tallest buildings in the world, as of 2024, only one is in the EU. Since 20 February 2021 the tallest building in the EU has been the Varso Tower in Warsaw, Poland, which is 310 metres (1,017 ft) tall.