Title: Inter Milan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inter_Milan
Summary: Football Club Internazionale Milano, widely referred to as Internazionale (pronounced [internattsjoˈnaːle]) or simply Inter (Italian pronunciation: [ˈinter]), and commonly known as Inter Milan in English-speaking countries, is an Italian professional football club based in Milan, Lombardy. Inter is the only team to have an unbroken presence in the top division of Italian football, currently Serie A, since its debut in 1909, having never been relegated to Serie B. Since 1947, Inter has shared the San Siro stadium, the largest stadium in Italy, with AC Milan, with whom it contests the long-standing Derby della Madonnina, one of the most widely followed rivalries in world football.
The club was founded on 9 March 1908 after a split within the Milan Foot-Ball and Cricket Club (now AC Milan), and won its first championship in 1910. Since its formation, the club has won 39 domestic trophies, including 21 league titles, 10 Coppa Italia, and 8 Supercoppa Italiana. From 2006 to 2010, the club won five successive league titles, equaling the all-time record at that time. It has won the European Cup/Champions League three times. Its latest win in 2010 completed an unprecedented Italian seasonal treble, with Inter also winning the Serie A title and the Coppa Italia in the same year. The club has also won three UEFA Cups, two Intercontinental Cups, and one FIFA Club World Cup.
Inter has the highest home game attendance in Italy and the fourth-highest attendance in Europe. Since May 2024, the club has been owned by American asset management company Oaktree Capital Management.

Title: Milan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milan
Summary: Milan is the capital and largest city of the region of Lombardy, in northern Italy, and the seat of the Metropolitan City of Milan. It is the second-largest city in Italy after the country’s capital, Rome, with a population of 1,362,863 in 2026. The city's wider metropolitan area is the largest in Italy, and the fourth-largest in the European Union, with an estimated population of 6.55 million. Milan is considered Italy's economic capital, and its metropolitan area accounts for about 20% of the country's GDP.
Founded around 590 BC by a Celtic tribe, Milan was conquered by the Romans in 222 BC, who Latinized the name of the city into Mediolanum. From AD 284 to 402, it served as capital of the western part of the Roman Empire. In the Late Medieval period, the wealthy Duchy of Milan was one of the greatest forces behind the Renaissance. As a  major center of the Italian Enlightenment during the Early modern period, Milan's cultural and political struggle against Austrian domination was crucial in the reunification of the Kingdom of Italy. From the 19th century onwards, Milan led the industrial and financial development of Italy.
Milan is a major international center of industry, finance, science, communications, fashion, art and tourism. Milan was classified as an "Alpha" city by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network. Milan's business district hosts Borsa Italiana, Italy's main stock exchange (part of the Euronext consortium, the world's sixth-largest by market capitalization) and the headquarters of numerous national corporations, including eight Fortune 500 Europe companies. As of 2023, Milan and its special metropolitan authority have the largest GDP and the highest per-capita GDP of any Italian province.
Milan is a global fashion capital and a major international tourist destination, being one of the most visited cities in the world, ranked second in Italy after Rome, fifth in Europe and sixteenth in the world. The city is a major cultural center, with museums and art galleries that feature some of the most important collections in the world, including major works by Leonardo da Vinci. Milan hosts numerous educational institutions, including academies and universities that account for 11% of the national total of enrolled students. Milan hosts several international events and fairs, including Milan Fashion Week and the Milan Furniture Fair, which are among the world's largest in terms of revenue, visitors and growth. Milan has many luxury hotels and is the fifth most starred in the world by Michelin Guide. It hosted the Universal Exposition in 1906 and 2015. In the field of sports, Milan is home to two of Europe's most successful football teams, AC Milan and Internazionale Milano (Inter Milan), and one of Europe's main basketball teams, Olimpia Milano. The city also co-hosted the Winter Olympic and Paralympic games in 2026.

Title: List of oldest church buildings
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_oldest_church_buildings
Summary: This article lists some but by no means all of the oldest known church buildings in the world. In most instances, buildings listed here were reconstructed numerous times and only fragments of the original buildings have survived. These surviving freestanding buildings were purposely constructed for use by congregations (or used at an early date). The dates are the approximate dates when they were built and/or reconstructed and/or first used by Christian congregations for worship.
The term church may be used in the sense of "Christian denomination" or in the singular as the Christian Church as a whole. The "church" (Greek ekklēsía, 'assembly') is traced to Pentecost and the beginning of the Christian mission in the first century and was not used in reference to a building.
According to the historical Catholic Encyclopedia (published from 1907), the Cenacle, the site of the Last Supper in Jerusalem, was the "first Christian church". The Dura-Europos church in Syria is the oldest surviving church building in the world, while the archaeological remains of both the Aqaba Church and the Megiddo church have been considered to be the world's oldest known purpose-built church, erected in the Roman Empire's administrative Diocese of the East in the 3rd century. Several authors have cited the Etchmiadzin Cathedral (Armenia's mother church) as the oldest cathedral.
St. Thaddeus Monastery or Qara Kelisa (meaning 'black church') in Chaldoran County, Iran is also noted by UNESCO World Heritage Centre as relating to 66 AD: "According to Armenian tradition such a location was chosen because saint Thaddeus built the earliest church—parts of which are still believed to be in place as the base of the old section—upon the ruins of the temple." In 66 AD, he as one of the Apostles and Princess Sandukht (the daughter of the King or daughter of Abbot Simeon) and other Thaddeus' devotees were tortured and executed by Armenia's King Sanatrouk or Sanadruk.

Title: Walls of Milan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walls_of_Milan
Summary: The city of Milan, Italy, has had three different systems of defending walls. The oldest, the Roman walls, were developed in two stages: the first in the Republican era and the second in the Imperial era.  The second wall system was realized in the Middle Ages (12th century), after the destruction of the city by Frederick I Barbarossa.  Finally, the latest wall system was built by the Spanish rulers in the 16th century.  While very little remains of these walls, their structure is clearly reflected in the urbanistic layout of the city.  In particular, modern Milan has two roughly circular rings of streets, namely the "Cerchia dei Navigli" and the "Cerchia dei Bastioni", which essentially correspond to the Medieval and Spanish walls, respectively. Note that a third ring of roads just beyond the Inner Ring Road (circonvallazione interna / "Cerchia dei Bastioni"), called the External Ring Road (circonvallazione esterna), does not follow any old city walls, but rather was part of the 1884 Beruto Plan for the city of Milan, created and named after a municipal engineer and public servant to the local city government.

Title: Antica trattoria Bagutto
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antica_trattoria_Bagutto
Summary: Antica trattoria Bagutto is a restaurant in Milan, Italy, in the Ponte Lambro district on the eastern outskirts of the city. It is located near the "Via Mecenate" motorway exit of the Autostrada A51 (Tangenziale Est di Milano: "Milan east ring road"). It is the oldest restaurant in Italy and the second oldest in Europe, after the Stiftskeller St. Peter in Salzburg, Austria.