Title: Georgia (U.S. state)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgia_(U.S._state)
Summary: Georgia (  JOR-jə) is a state in the Southeastern, South Atlantic, and Deep South regions of the United States. It borders Tennessee to the northwest, North Carolina and South Carolina to the northeast, the Atlantic Ocean to the east, Florida to the south, and Alabama to the west. Of the 50 U.S. states, Georgia is the 24th-largest by area and eighth-most populous. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, its 2025 estimated population was 11,302,748. Atlanta, a global city, is both the state's capital and its largest city. The Atlanta metropolitan area, with a population greater than 6.3 million people in 2023, is the eighth most populous metropolitan area in the United States and contains about 57% of Georgia's entire population. Other major metropolitan areas in the state include Augusta, Savannah, Columbus, and Macon.
The Province of Georgia was established in 1732, with its first settlement occurring in 1733 when Savannah was founded. By 1752, Georgia had transitioned into a British royal colony, making it the last and southernmost of the original Thirteen Colonies. On January 2, 1788, Georgia became the fourth state to ratify the United States Constitution. Between 1802 and 1804, a portion of western Georgia was carved out to create the Mississippi Territory, which eventually became the U.S. states of Alabama and Mississippi. Georgia declared its secession from the Union on January 19, 1861, joining the ranks of the original seven Confederate States. After the Civil War, it was the last state to be readmitted to the Union on July 15, 1870.
In the late 19th century, during the post-Reconstruction period, Georgia's economy underwent significant changes, driven by a coalition of influential politicians, business leaders, and journalists, notably Henry W. Grady, who promoted the "New South" ideology focused on reconciliation and industrialization. In the mid-20th century, several notable figures from Georgia, including Martin Luther King Jr., emerged as key leaders in the civil rights movement. Since 1945, Georgia has experienced significant population and economic expansion, aligning with the larger Sun Belt trend.
Georgia is defined by a diversity of landscapes, flora, and fauna, such as the Blue Ridge Mountains (part of the broader Appalachian Mountain range) and the Piedmont plateau. Except for some elevated areas in the Blue Ridge, Georgia predominantly experiences a humid subtropical climate.

Title: Acworth, Georgia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acworth,_Georgia
Summary: Acworth is a city in Cherokee County, Georgia and Cobb County, Georgia, United States. It is part of Metro Atlanta. As of the 2020 census, this city had a population of 22,440, up from 20,425 in 2010. Acworth is located in the foothills of the North Georgia mountains along the southeastern banks of Lake Acworth and Lake Allatoona on the Etowah River. Unincorporated areas known as Acworth extend into Bartow, Cherokee, and Paulding counties.
Acworth is often referred to as "the Lake City" because of its proximity to Lake Allatoona and Lake Acworth.

Title: Marietta, Georgia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marietta,_Georgia
Summary: Marietta is a city in and the county seat of Cobb County, Georgia, United States. At the 2020 census, the city had a population of 60,972, making it one of Atlanta's largest suburbs. Marietta is the fourth largest of the principal cities by population of the Atlanta metropolitan area.

Title: 2026 Georgia Public Service Commission election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Georgia_Public_Service_Commission_election
Summary: The 2026 Georgia Public Service Commission election will be held on November 3, 2026, to elect two members of the Georgia Public Service Commission. Primary elections were held on May 19, and primary runoff elections will be held on June 16 in races where no candidate received a majority of the vote. Commissioners are elected statewide, but must live in the district they represent.

Title: Atlanta NWSL team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atlanta_NWSL_team
Summary: A yet-to-be-named women's professional soccer team based in Atlanta, Georgia, currently operating under the placeholder identity "NWSL Atlanta 2028," was awarded the National Women's Soccer League's 17th franchise on November 11, 2025. Owned by Arthur Blank of Atlanta United FC and the Atlanta Falcons, the team will begin play in 2028 alongside a second expansion club in Columbus, sharing Mercedes-Benz Stadium with Atlanta United.