Title: Tsinghua University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsinghua_University
Summary: Tsinghua University (Chinese: 清华大学; pinyin: Qīnghuá Dàxué; THU) is a public research university in Haidian, Beijing, China. It is affiliated with and funded by the Ministry of Education of China. The university is part of the Double First-Class Construction, and was a part of its predecessor initiatives: Project 211 and Project 985. It is also a member of the C9 League.
Tsinghua University's campus is in northwestern Beijing, on the site of the former imperial gardens of the Qing dynasty. The university has 21 schools and 59 departments, with faculties in science, engineering, humanities, law, medicine, history, philosophy, economics, management, education, and art.
Since the university was established in 1911, it has produced notable alumni in science, engineering, politics, business, and academia. These include leaders Xi Jinping, Hu Jintao, and Zhu Rongji, and Nobel Prize in Physics laureate Yang Chen-Ning.

Title: History of Tsinghua University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Tsinghua_University
Summary: Founded in 1911, Tsinghua University is located on the site of Tsinghua Garden in Beijing, the former residence of Prince Yinzhi, the third son of the Kangxi Emperor of the Qing dynasty. National Tsing Hua University, established by the original Chinese faculty of the university after the Chinese Civil War, is located in Hsinchu, Taiwan.
In 1909, the indemnity payment to the United States from the Boxer Protocol was reduced by US$10.8 million by Theodore Roosevelt's administration. The Qing imperial court used the difference to create the Boxer Indemnity Scholarship Programme and established the China Institute along with a preparatory school. The school was later renamed Tsinghua School and expanded in 1925 with the addition of a college department.

Title: Yan Ning
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yan_Ning
Summary: Yan Ning (Chinese: 颜宁; born 21 November 1977; also spelled as Nieng Yan) is a Chinese structural biologist. She has been serving as professor of life science at Tsinghua University since December 2022. She previously served as a professor at Princeton University from 2017 to 2022 and a faculty member at Tsinghua University from 2007 to 2017.

Title: Tsinghua University School of Medicine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsinghua_University_School_of_Medicine
Summary: Tsinghua University School of Medicine, or Tsinghua Medicine, is a college directly under Tsinghua University. It was established in 2001 and its first dean was Wu Jieping.
Tsinghua University School of Medicine consists of five teaching and research institutions and operates four affiliated hospitals. It ranks among the top medical schools in China.

Title: Yang Zhilin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yang_Zhilin
Summary: Yang Zhilin (Chinese: 杨植麟; pinyin: Yáng Zhílín; born 1992) is a Chinese entrepreneur and businessman who is the co-founder of the AI company Moonshot AI. He also co-founded Recurrent AI.
Yang is also the co-author of the papers relating to XLNet and Transformer-XL.