Title: Hispanic and Latino Americans
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hispanic_and_Latino_Americans
Summary: Hispanic and Latino Americans are Americans who have a Hispanic or Latino American background, culture, or family origin. This demographic group includes all Americans who identify as Hispanic or Latino, regardless of race. According to annual estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau, as of July 1, 2024, the Hispanic and Latino population was estimated at 68,086,153, representing approximately 20% of the total U.S. population, making them the second-largest group in the country after the non-Hispanic White population.
"Origin" can be viewed as the ancestry, nationality group, lineage or country of birth of the person, parents or ancestors before their arrival into the United States of America. People who identify as Hispanic or Latino may be of any race, because similarly to what occurred during the colonization and post-independence of the United States, Latin American countries have had populations made up of multiracial and monoracial descendants of settlers from the metropole of a European colonial empire (in the case of Latin American countries, Spanish and Portuguese settlers, unlike the Thirteen Colonies that will form the United States, which received settlers from the United Kingdom). Hispanics and Latinos of mixed European and Indigenous ancestry are sometimes known as mestizos. In addition, there are also Indigenous peoples of the Americas (Native Americans), descendants of African slaves brought to Latin America in the colonial era, and post-independence immigrants from Europe, the Middle East, and East Asia.
As one of only two specifically-designated categories of ethnicity in the United States (under the technical label of "Hispanic or Latino"; the other category being under the technical label of "Not Hispanic or Latino"), Hispanics and Latinos form a pan-ethnicity incorporating a diversity of inter-related cultural and linguistic heritages, in which use of the Spanish language is the most important common element. The largest national origin groups of Hispanic and Latino Americans in order of population size are: Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Salvadoran, Dominican, Panamanian, Colombian, Chilean, Argentine, Guatemalan, Honduran, Costa Rican, Ecuadorian, Peruvian, Uruguayan, Venezuelan, Spanish and Nicaraguan. Although commonly embraced by Latino communities, Brazilians are officially not considered Hispanic. The predominant origin of regional Hispanic and Latino populations varies widely in different locations across the country. In 2012, Hispanic Americans were the second fastest-growing ethnic group by percentage growth in the United States after Asian Americans.
Hispanic Americans of mixed Indigenous descent and European (typically Spanish) descent are the second oldest racial group (after the Native Americans) to inhabit much of what is today the United States. Spain colonized large areas of what is today the American Southwest and West Coast, as well as Florida. Its holdings included all of present-day California, Nevada, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas and Florida, as well as parts of Wyoming, Colorado, Kansas and Oklahoma, all of which constituted part of the Viceroyalty of New Spain, based in Mexico City. Later, this vast territory (except Florida, which Spain ceded to the United States in 1821) became part of Mexico after its independence from Spain in 1821 and until the end of the Mexican–American War in 1848.

Title: Iranian Americans
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iranian_Americans
Summary: Iranian-Americans, also known as Persian Americans, are United States citizens or inhabitants who have Iranian ancestry or citizenship. According to Iran's National Organization for Civil Registration, the United States has the largest Iranian diaspora population in the world. A 2004 study conducted by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology estimated the number of Iranian-Americans at approximately 691,000.
Beginning in the 1950s, the Imperial State of Iran sponsored thousands of Iranian students to study in the United States through government scholarship programs, contributing to the growth of early Iranian communities centered around American universities. However, following the Iranian Revolution in 1979, a much larger wave of Iranians immigrated to the United States, many fleeing repression or pursuing greater economic opportunities. More than 40% settled in Southern California, particularly in Greater Los Angeles, where they formed distinct ethnic enclaves such as the community of "Tehrangeles" in Westwood.

Title: Indian Americans
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indian_Americans
Summary: Indian Americans are Americans whose ancestry originates wholly or partly from India. The terms Asian Indian and East Indian are used to avoid confusion with Native Americans in the United States, who are also referred to as "Indians" or "American Indians". With a population of more than 6 million (6,079,221) according to the Indian Ministry of External Affairs, Indian Americans are the largest group of South Asian Americans, the largest Asian-alone group, and the second-largest group of Asian Americans after Chinese Americans. The United States hosts the largest Indian diaspora by population, though not by percentage.
The Indian American population started increasing, especially  after the 1980s, with U.S. migration policies that attracted highly skilled and educated Indian immigrants. Indian Americans have the highest median household income and the second highest per capita income (after Taiwanese Americans) among other ethnic groups working in the United States. "Indian" does not refer to a single ethnic group, but is used as an umbrella term for the various ethnic groups in India.

Title: International reactions to the January 6 United States Capitol attack
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_reactions_to_the_January_6_United_States_Capitol_attack
Summary: More than seventy countries and international organizations expressed their concerns over the January 6 United States Capitol attack and condemned the violence, with some specifically condemning President Donald Trump's own role in inciting the attack. Foreign leaders, diplomats, politicians, and institutions expressed shock, outrage, and condemnation of the events. Multiple world leaders made a call for peace, describing the assault as "an attack on democracy". The leaders of some countries, including Brazil, Poland, and Hungary, declined to condemn the situation, and described it as an internal U.S. affair.
As early as January 2021, a few European security officials described the events as an attempted coup.

Title: Foreign policy of the second Trump administration
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_policy_of_the_second_Trump_administration
Summary: The foreign policy of the second Trump administration is an example of a realist "America First"  foreign policy. It has been described as imperialist, expansionist, and interventionist in respect to the Americas and Middle East, but also isolationist in respect to Europe and Africa. Trump has used the expansive version of the Monroe Doctrine, that Donald Trump himself called the "Donroe Doctrine." His foreign policy has been compared to the policy of former president William McKinley. Trump's deputy chief of staff, Stephen Miller, explained their policy saying: "We're a superpower. And under President Trump, we are going to conduct ourselves as a superpower."
The foreign policy of the Trump administration has been described as breaking the post-1945 rules-based liberal international order and as an abandonment of multilateralism. It involved dismantling or withdrawing support for both domestic and international institutions working to strengthen the American soft power, and favoring instead hard power. The moves were described as undermining American global leadership and creating a power vacuum for Russia and China. Trump's relations with U.S. allies have been transactional and spanned from indifference to animosity, while he has sought friendly relationships with some U.S. adversaries. The actions saw large drops in global public opinion of the US.
Trump initiated trade wars with Canada and Mexico continued the ongoing trade war with China. He has repeatedly expressed his wish to annex Canada, Greenland, and the Panama Canal. He has taken a pro-Israel stance and increased support for Israel in the Gaza war. In response to the Gaza war, he proposed taking over the Gaza Strip, forcibly relocating its people to other Arab countries such as Jordan and Egypt, and turning it into a special economic zone. In Latin America, Trump authorized a series of strikes on alleged drug traffickers, the legality of which is widely disputed under both U.S. and international law, and subsequently ordered a military operation to capture Nicolás Maduro, the disputed president of Venezuela. Following the raid, Venezuela has been described as a de facto puppet state of the U.S. In 2026, he launched a major war on Iran with Israel with the stated goal of regime change which lead to the assassination of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei. Trump has sought realignment with Russian president Vladimir Putin, a longtime US adversary. To end the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Trump's administration offered concessions to Russia; it also said that Ukraine was partly responsible for the invasion. These moves have been criticized by most US allies and by many international institutions.