Title: Ronaldinho
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ronaldinho
Summary: Ronaldo de Assis Moreira (born 21 March 1980), commonly known as Ronaldinho Gaúcho or simply Ronaldinho, is a Brazilian professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder or left winger for Serie C side Ravenna. Widely regarded as one of the greatest players of all time, he won the Ballon d'Or, two FIFA World Player of the Year awards, and was named the FIFPro Player of the Season twice. He is the only player ever to have won all of the following: a World Cup, a Copa América, a Confederations Cup, a Champions League, a Copa Libertadores and a Ballon d'Or. A global icon of the sport, Ronaldinho was renowned for his dribbling abilities, free-kick accuracy, his use of tricks, feints, and passing, as well as his ability to score and create goals. Also known by the nickname "O Bruxo" ('The Wizard'), during his career, he was one of the most valuable sportsmen in the world.
Ronaldinho made his career debut for Grêmio, in 1998. Aged 20, he moved to Paris Saint-Germain in France, where he established himself as one of the club's key players and helped them reach the 2003 Coupe de France final. In 2003, he signed for Barcelona, where he experienced his prime years, winning his first FIFA World Player of the Year award as Barcelona won the 2004–05 La Liga title. In the season that followed, he was integral to Barcelona achieving a double of the La Liga and UEFA Champions League titles. Ronaldinho received the 2005 Ballon d'Or and his second World Player of the Year in the process. Due to these successes, he is widely credited with elevating Barcelona in the early 2000s.
Despite Barcelona winning no major trophies in 2006–07, Ronaldinho enjoyed his most prolific league season, scoring a career-best 21 goals. After a decline in form and fitness the following season, Barcelona sold him to AC Milan in 2008. In his second season, Ronaldinho rediscovered his best form, registering a league-high 15 assists in Serie A, before being involved in the team's 2010–11 Serie A title win. He returned to Brazil to play for Flamengo in 2011 and Atlético Mineiro a year later where he won the 2013 Copa Libertadores, before moving to Mexico to play for Querétaro and then back to Brazil to play for Fluminense in 2015. In 2026, he came out of retirement to play for Ravenna.
Ronaldinho accumulated numerous other individual awards in his career: he was included in the UEFA Team of the Year and the FIFA World XI three times each, and was named UEFA Club Footballer of the Year for the 2005–06 season and South American Footballer of the Year in 2013; in 2004, he was named by Pelé in the FIFA 100 list of the world's greatest living players. In 2009, World Soccer magazine voted him World Player of the Decade 2000s.
In his international career with Brazil, Ronaldinho earned 97 caps, scored 33 goals, and represented them in two FIFA World Cups. After debuting with the Seleção by winning the 1999 Copa América, he was an integral player in the 2002 World Cup winning team, positioned alongside Ronaldo and Rivaldo in an attacking trio, and was named in the World Cup All-Star Team. He captained his team to the 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup title and was named man of the match in the final. He also captained the Brazil Olympic team to a bronze medal in men's football at the 2008 Summer Olympics.

Title: European Cup and UEFA Champions League records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Cup_and_UEFA_Champions_League_records_and_statistics
Summary: This page details statistics of all seasons of the European Cup and Champions League. These statistics do not include the qualifying rounds of the UEFA Champions League, unless otherwise noted.

Title: Raphinha
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raphinha
Summary: Raphael Dias Belloli (Portuguese pronunciation: [ʁɐˈfiɲɐ]; born 14 December 1996), known mononymously as Raphinha, is a Brazilian professional footballer who plays as a winger or forward for La Liga club Barcelona, which he captains, and the Brazil national team. Considered one of the best players in the world, he is known for his pace, playmaking, work rate and finishing.
Raphinha began his career with Brazilian club Avaí, before signing for the Portuguese Vitória de Guimarães in 2016, where he made his professional debut. In 2018, he joined fellow Primeira Liga club Sporting CP, winning the double of the Taça de Portugal and Taça da Liga in 2019.
After having played for Rennes and Leeds United, Raphinha signed for Spanish club Barcelona in 2022 for a transfer worth €58 million (£50 million). Despite initially struggling, in 2024–25, Raphinha had his breakthrough season, being integral to Barcelona winning a domestic treble of the La Liga title, the Copa del Rey, and the Supercopa de España, while also finishing as the Champions League's top scorer.
After never being capped at youth level, Raphinha made his senior international debut for Brazil in 2021, and was part of their squads for the 2022 FIFA World Cup, 2024 Copa América and 2026 World Cup.

Title: Kings League
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kings_League
Summary: The Kings League is a seven-a-side football format established in 2022 by former football player Gerard Piqué. The format, originally introduced in Spain, features rules that differ from traditional football regulations, such as a tie-breaker penalty shootout, unlimited substitutions, and the implementation of secret weapons, to add an element of dynamism and entertainment to the games.
As of 2025, Kings League has expanded with leagues in Western and Central Europe (Kings League Italy, Kings League France & Kings League Germany), North and South America (Kings League Mexico & Kings League Brazil), the Middle East and North Africa region (Kings League MENA) and with plans to expand into the United States (Kings League USA).

Title: Career of Lionel Messi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Career_of_Lionel_Messi
Summary: Lionel Messi is an Argentine professional footballer who plays as a forward for and captains the Major League Soccer club Inter Miami. His individual achievements include eight Ballon d'Or awards, the most for any footballer. Having won 46 team trophies, he is the most decorated player in the history of professional football.
Messi's club career began with Barcelona, where he rose through the youth ranks, making his first-team debut in 2004. During his tenure, Barcelona secured ten La Liga titles, seven Copa del Reys, four UEFA Champions Leagues, seven Supercopa de Españas, three UEFA Super Cups, and three FIFA Club World Cups, and Messi became the club's all-time top scorer. In 2021, due to club financial constraints and league regulations, Messi left Barcelona and signed with Paris Saint-Germain (PSG). Joining forces with fellow superstars Neymar and Kylian Mbappé, he won two Ligue 1 titles and one Trophée des Champions. In 2023, Messi joined Inter Miami and led them to their first-ever MLS Cup championship.
On the international stage, Messi made his debut with Argentina's senior national team in 2005, and would represent the country in six FIFA World Cups and seven Copa Américas. Initially facing criticism for not winning major tournaments with the national team, Messi broke Argentina's 28-year international trophy drought by captaining the team to victory in the 2021 Copa América, the 2022 Finalissima, the 2022 FIFA World Cup, and the 2024 Copa América.