Title: António Costa
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ant%C3%B3nio_Costa
Summary: António Luís Santos da Costa  (born 17 July 1961) is a Goan - Portuguese lawyer and politician who has served as president of the European Council since 2024. He previously served as prime minister of Portugal from 2015 to 2024 and  secretary-general of the Socialist Party from 2014 to 2024.
Born in Lisbon, Costa was secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs from 1995 to 1997, minister of Parliamentary Affairs from 1997 to 1999, minister of Justice from 1999 to 2002, minister of Home Affairs from 2005 to 2007, as well as mayor of Lisbon from 2007 to 2015.
Costa was elected secretary-general of the Socialist Party in 2014. Costa's near nine-year tenure as prime minister is the second longest, with Costa also being the longest-serving politician in government functions, in Portuguese democracy, and the longest of any Iberian Peninsula national leader in the 21st century. On 7 November 2023, Costa resigned following an investigation involving members of his government in connection with alleged corruption and malfeasance in handling lithium mining and hydrogen projects in the country. The president of Portugal decided to dissolve Parliament and called for a snap election. Costa stayed as prime minister in a caretaker capacity until 2 April 2024, when he was succeeded by Luís Montenegro.
In December 2024, Costa succeeded Charles Michel as president of the European Council. As president of the European Council, Costa reaffirmed support for Ukraine during the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Title: José Sócrates
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jos%C3%A9_S%C3%B3crates
Summary: José Sócrates Carvalho Pinto de Sousa  (born 6 September 1957), commonly known as José Sócrates (European Portuguese: [ʒuˈzɛ ˈsɔkɾɐtɨʃ]), is a Portuguese politician who was the prime minister of Portugal from 12 March 2005 to 21 June 2011. For the second half of 2007, he acted as president-in-office of the Council of the European Union.
Sócrates grew up in the industrial city of Covilhã. He joined the centre-left Socialist Party in 1981 and was elected as a member of parliament in 1987. Sócrates entered the government in 1995, as secretary of state for Environment in the first cabinet of António Guterres. Two years later, he became Minister of Youth and Sports (where he helped to organize Portugal's successful bid to host UEFA Euro 2004) and in 1999 became Minister for Environment. Sócrates prominence rose during the governments of António Guterres to the point that when the prime minister resigned in 2001, he considered appointing Sócrates as his successor.
In opposition, José Sócrates was elected leader of the Socialist Party in 2004 and led the party to its first absolute majority in the 2005 election. By then, Portugal was experiencing an economic crisis, marked by stagnation and a difficult state of public finances. Like the preceding centre-right government, Sócrates implemented a policy of fiscal austerity and structural reforms. Among the most important reforms were the 2007 Social Security reform and the 2009 labour law reform. His government also restructured the provision of public services, closing thousands of elementary schools and dozens of health care facilities and maternity wards in rural areas and small cities. Despite austerity, Sócrates' government intended to boost economic growth through government-sponsored investments, namely in transportation, technology and energy as well as in health and school infrastructure. The government launched several public–private partnerships to finance such projects. Internally, Sócrates was accused of having an authoritarian style and of trying to control media, while internationally he completed the negotiations of Lisbon Treaty and had close ties with leaders such as the prime minister of Spain José Luis Rodriguez Zapatero and the president of Venezuela Hugo Chavez. The first Sócrates government was initially able to reduce the budget deficit and controlling public debt, but economic growth lagged.
In 2008–09, with the Great Recession starting to hit Portugal and facing recession and high unemployment, austerity was waned as part of the European economic stimulus plan. Nevertheless, support for Sócrates and the Socialists eroded and the ruling party lost its majority in the 2009 election. The second government of José Sócrates faced a deterioration of the economic and financial state of the country, with skyrocketing deficit and growing debt. Austerity was resumed in 2010 while the country entered a hard financial crisis in the context of the European debt crisis.
On 23 March 2011, Sócrates submitted his resignation to President Aníbal Cavaco Silva after the Parliament rejected a new austerity package (the fourth in a year), leading to the 2011 snap election. Financial status of the country deteriorated and on 6 April Sócrates caretaker government requested a bail-out program which was conceded. The €78 billion IMF/European Union bailout to Portugal thus started and would last until May 2014. Sócrates lost the snap election held on 5 June 2011 and resigned as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party. For most of his political career, Sócrates was associated with several corruption cases, notably Independente University and Freeport cases.
On 21 November 2014 he was arrested in Lisbon, accused of corruption, tax evasion, and money laundering, becoming the first former Prime Minister in the history of the country to be thus accused. On 24 November Sócrates was remanded in custody on preliminary charges of corruption and tax fraud. He was held in Évora prison until 4 September 2015 when he left the prison for a relative's house in Lisbon, where he remained under house arrest until 16 October 2015. That day, a judge released him from house arrest, allowing him to await the end of the investigation in freedom, although remaining forbidden from leaving the country or contacting other suspects of the case. The police investigation, known as Operation Marquis continued until his indictment in October 2017. In 2018, Sócrates left the Socialist Party.

Title: Francisco Adolfo de Varnhagen, Viscount of Porto Seguro
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francisco_Adolfo_de_Varnhagen,_Viscount_of_Porto_Seguro
Summary: Francisco Adolfo de Varnhagen, Viscount of Porto Seguro (February 17, 1816 – June 26, 1878), was a Brazilian diplomat and historian. He is the patron of the 39th chair of the Brazilian Academy of Letters. He is considered "the father of modern Brazilian historical scholarship."

Title: First Lady of Portugal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Lady_of_Portugal
Summary: First Lady of Portugal (Portuguese: primeira-dama) is the unofficial title attributed to the wife or Partner of the president of Portugal. To date, there has been no first gentleman of Portugal. The position is occupied by Margarida Maldonado Freitas since the presidential inauguration of António José Seguro in 2026.

Title: Antonio Quintana Simonetti
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antonio_Quintana_Simonetti
Summary: Antonio Luis Quintana Simonetti (April 19, 1919 – September 21, 1993) was a Cuban architect and a forerunner of  Modern architecture in Havana. Quintana graduated from the University of Havana in 1944, among his works are some of the most important modernist buildings in the capital. Dissatisfied as a student with the classical canons, Antonio Quintana participated in 1944 in the so-called "Burning of Vignola" in the courtyard of the School of Architecture of the University of Havana. From this date forward, he began to study the precepts of contemporary architecture. He graduated as an architect in the same year.