Title: List of highest-grossing films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_films
Summary: Films generate income from several revenue streams, including theatrical exhibition, home video, television broadcast rights, and merchandising. However, theatrical box-office earnings are the primary metric for trade publications in assessing the success of a film, mostly because of the availability of the data compared to sales figures for home video and broadcast rights, but also because of historical practice. Included on the list are charts of the top box-office earners (ranked by both the nominal and real value of their revenue), a chart of high-grossing films by calendar year, a timeline showing the transition of the highest-grossing film record, and a chart of the highest-grossing film franchises and series. All charts are ranked by international theatrical box-office performance where possible, excluding income derived from home video, broadcasting rights, and merchandise.
Traditionally, war films, musicals, and historical dramas have been the most popular genres, but franchise films have been among the best performers of the 21st century. There is strong interest in the superhero genre, with eleven films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe featuring among the nominal top-earners. The most successful superhero film, Avengers: Endgame, is also the second-highest-grossing film on the nominal earnings chart, and there are four films in total based on the Avengers comic books charting in the top twenty-five. Other Marvel Comics adaptations have also had success with the Spider-Man and X-Men properties, while films based on Batman and Superman from DC Comics have generally performed well. Beyond the superhero genre, Star Wars, with four films, is the most represented franchise in the nominal earnings chart. Although the nominal earnings chart is dominated by films adapted from pre-existing properties and sequels, it is headed by Avatar, which is an original work. Animated family films have performed consistently well, with Disney films enjoying lucrative re-releases prior to the home-video era. Disney also enjoyed later success with films such as Frozen and its sequel, Zootopia and its sequel, and The Lion King (along with its computer-animated remake), as well as its Pixar division, of which Inside Out 2, Incredibles 2, and Toy Story 3, 4 and 5 have been the best performers. Beyond Disney and Pixar animation, China's Ne Zha 2 (the highest-grossing animated film), and the Despicable Me and Shrek series have met with the most success.
While inflation has eroded the achievements of most films from the 1960s and 1970s, there are franchises originating from that period that are still active. Besides the Star Wars franchise, James Bond films are still being released periodically; both are among the highest-grossing franchises. Some of the older films that held the record of highest-grossing film still have respectable grosses by today's standards, but no longer compete numerically against today's top-earners in an era of much higher individual ticket prices. When those prices are adjusted for inflation, however, then Gone with the Wind—which was the highest-grossing film outright for twenty-five years—is still the highest-grossing film of all time. All grosses on the list are expressed in U.S. dollars at their nominal value, except where stated otherwise.

Title: List of highest-grossing Indian films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_Indian_films
Summary: This ranking lists the highest-grossing Indian films produced by Indian cinema, based on conservative global box office estimates as reported by organisations classified as green by Wikipedia. The figures are not adjusted for inflation. However, there is no official tracking of figures and sources publishing data are frequently pressured to increase their estimates.

Title: List of highest-grossing Telugu films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_Telugu_films
Summary: Telugu cinema is the segment of Indian cinema dedicated to the production of motion pictures in the Telugu language. It is one of the largest film production centres in India. This ranking lists the highest-grossing Telugu films produced by Telugu cinema, based on conservative global box office estimates as reported by organizations classified as green by Wikipedia. The figures are not adjusted for inflation. However, there is no official tracking of figures, and sources publishing data are frequently pressured to increase their estimates.

Title: List of highest-grossing Malayalam films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_Malayalam_films
Summary: Malayalam cinema is part of Indian cinema, based in Kerala and focused on producing films in the Malayalam language. This ranking lists the highest-grossing Malayalam films based on conservative global box office estimates reported by various sources. The figures are not adjusted for inflation.

Title: List of highest-grossing R-rated films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_R-rated_films
Summary: This is a list of the highest-grossing R-rated films. An R-rated film is a film that has been assessed as having material which may be unsuitable for children under the age of 17 by the Motion Picture Association; the MPA writes "Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian". The R-rating applies to the United States, with similar ratings given in TV-MA for television and home video releases, as well as other countries such as 14A and 18A in Canada, 15 or 18 in the United Kingdom, and MA 15+ and R 18+ in Australia. All lists in this article are unadjusted for inflation except where specifically noted.
The Odyssey is the highest-grossing R-rated film of all time. Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba anime film series is the highest-grossing R-rated animated and non-English-language film franchise, with Infinity Castle as the highest-grossing R-rated animated and non-English-language film of all time.