Title: National Basketball Association
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Basketball_Association
Summary: The National Basketball Association (NBA) is a professional basketball league in North America composed of 30 teams (29 in the United States and 1 in Canada). The NBA is one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada and is considered the premier professional basketball league in the world. The league is headquartered in New York City and Secaucus, New Jersey.
The NBA was created on August 3, 1949, with the merger of the Basketball Association of America (BAA) and the National Basketball League (NBL). The league later adopted the BAA's history and considers its founding on June 6, 1946, as its own. In 1976, the NBA and the American Basketball Association (ABA) merged, adding four franchises to the NBA. The NBA's regular season runs from October to April, with each team playing 82 games. The league's playoff tournament extends into June, culminating with the NBA Finals championship series.
The NBA is a member of USA Basketball (USAB), which is recognized by the International Basketball Federation (FIBA) as the governing body for basketball in the United States. The NBA is the second-wealthiest professional sports league in the world by revenue after the National Football League (NFL). As of 2020, NBA players are the world's highest paid athletes by average annual salary per player. In 1996, the NBA created a women's league, the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA). The NBA also operates the NBA G League, NBA 2K League, and the Basketball Africa League.
The Boston Celtics have the most NBA championships with 18, winning most recently in 2024. The New York Knicks are the reigning league champions, having defeated the San Antonio Spurs in the 2026 NBA Finals.

Title: List of defunct professional sports leagues
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_defunct_professional_sports_leagues
Summary: These are notable sports leagues which are no longer operating.

Title: United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States
Summary: The United States of America (USA), also known as the United States (U.S.) or America, is a country primarily located in North America. It is a federal republic consisting of 50 states and a federal capital district, Washington, D.C. The 48 contiguous states border Canada to the north and Mexico to the south, with the semi-exclave of Alaska in the northwest and the archipelago of Hawaii in the Pacific Ocean. The United States also asserts sovereignty over five major island territories and various uninhabited islands in Oceania and the Caribbean. It is a megadiverse country, with the world's fourth-largest total area and third-largest population, exceeding 341 million.
Paleo-Indians migrated from North Asia to North America at least 15,000 years ago and formed various civilizations. Beginning in 1607, British colonization established the Thirteen Colonies. The 18th-century American Enlightenment spread values of republicanism and liberalism there, and clashes with the British Crown over taxation without parliamentary representation, among other denied rights, sparked the American Revolution. Independence from Great Britain was formally declared in the Lee Resolution of July 2, 1776, two days before the Declaration of Independence. Victory in the 1775–1783 Revolutionary War brought international recognition of U.S. sovereignty.
The U.S. expanded westward through the purchase, settlement, and conquest of European- and Indigenous-controlled territory. As more states joined the Union, a sectional division over slavery led 11 Southern states to secede and form the Confederate States of America, fighting the Union in the Civil War of 1861–1865. With the United States' victory and reunification, slavery was abolished. By 1900, the U.S. emerged as a great power, a status solidified after its involvement in World War I. Following Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, it entered World War II on the Allied side. The war's aftermath left the U.S. and the Soviet Union as rival superpowers, vying for geopolitical dominance during the Cold War. The Soviet Union's collapse in 1991 left the U.S. as the world's sole superpower, although it has faced competition from China in the 2020s. The September 11, 2001, attacks led the U.S. to launch a 20-year-long war on terror.
The U.S. federal government is a republic under the Constitution, which created a a separation of powers among legislative, executive, and judicial branches. Executive authority is vested in a president, while Congress is a bicameral national legislature composed of the House of Representatives (a lower house based on population) and the Senate (an upper house based on equal representation for each state). Federalism grants substantial autonomy to the 50 states.
A developed country, the United States ranks high in economic competitiveness, innovation, and higher education. Its economy accounts for over a quarter of nominal global GDP and has been the world's largest since about 1890. The U.S. is the wealthiest country, with the highest disposable household income per capita among OECD members, though its wealth inequality is highly pronounced. American culture, shaped by centuries of immigration, is diverse and globally influential. The U.S. makes up nearly a third of global military spending and is widely considered to have the most powerful armed forces in the world. A member of numerous international organizations, it plays a dominant role in global political, cultural, economic, and military affairs.

Title: Major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Major_professional_sports_leagues_in_the_United_States_and_Canada
Summary: Major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada, which compete in the sports of football, baseball, basketball, ice hockey, and soccer, include the National Football League (NFL), Major League Baseball (MLB), the National Basketball Association (NBA), the National Hockey League (NHL), and Major League Soccer (MLS). The NFL only competes in the United States, with the prominent gridiron football league in Canada being the Canadian Football League (CFL).
MLB, the NBA, the NFL, and the NHL are commonly referred to as the "Big Four". Each of these is the wealthiest professional club competition in its sport worldwide and, along with the Premier League, make up the top five sports leagues by revenue in the world.
Each of the Big Four leagues, as well as MLS and the CFL, averages at least 15,000 fans in attendance per game as of 2024. The NFL has the largest stadiums on average in the world, ranging in capacity from just over 60,000 to almost 100,000 spectators, while MLB ballparks generally hold between 30,000 and 50,000 fans. Venues used primarily by MLS and CFL vary more widely in capacity, from about 20,000 to about 60,000. The two indoor leagues, the NHL and NBA, play mostly in arenas that hold 18,000 to 20,000 seats. Many multi-purpose venues host events in multiple leagues, including: NFL and MLS (5), CFL and MLS (2), MLB and MLS (1), and NBA and NHL (11). MLB and NFL teams frequently shared stadiums in the past, although none currently do. The NFL and MLB also play a limited number of annual games in English Premier League stadiums, and the NFL plays a limited number of annual games in stadiums of Germany's Bundesliga, and less often plays games in stadiums of Mexico's Liga MX, Brazil's Brasileirão, Spain's La Liga, and the Australian Football League.
The Big Four leagues currently have 30 to 32 teams each, most of which are concentrated in the most populous metropolitan areas of the United States and Canada. Unlike the promotion and relegation systems used in sports leagues in various other regions around the world, American and Canadian sports leagues are closed leagues that maintain the same teams from season-to-season. Expansion of the league usually occurs by adding newly formed teams, though mergers with competing leagues have also occurred.
Baseball, American football, and ice hockey have had professional leagues continuously for over 100 years; early leagues such as the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players, the Ohio League, and the National Hockey Association formed the basis of the modern MLB, NFL, and NHL, respectively. Basketball was invented in 1891, and its first professional league formed in the 1920s. The Basketball Association of America, founded in 1946, formed the basis of the NBA in 1949 and has lasted for over 75 years.
Soccer was first professionalized in 1894, with past American-based leagues including the American Soccer League (1921–1933) (ASL) and the original North American Soccer League (1968–1984) (NASL). Major League Soccer (MLS) was established in 1996.