Title: Santa Clara, California
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santa_Clara,_California
Summary: Santa Clara ( SAN-tə KLAR-ə; Spanish for 'Saint Clare') is a city in Santa Clara County, California, United States. Located in the southern San Francisco Bay Area, it was founded by the Spanish in 1777 with the establishment of Mission Santa Clara de Asís under the leadership of Junípero Serra. The city's population was 127,647 at the 2020 census, making it the eighth-most populous city in the Bay Area. The U.S. Census Bureau estimated Santa Clara's population at 133,446 as of July 1, 2025.
Santa Clara is located in the center of Silicon Valley and is home to the headquarters of companies such as Intel, Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), and Nvidia. It is also home to Santa Clara University, the oldest university in California, Levi's Stadium, home of the National Football League's San Francisco 49ers, and California's Great America amusement park. Santa Clara is bordered by San Jose on almost every side, except for Sunnyvale and Cupertino to the west.

Title: Santa Clara University School of Law
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santa_Clara_University_School_of_Law
Summary: The Santa Clara University School of Law (Santa Clara Law) is the law school of Santa Clara University, a Jesuit university in Santa Clara, California, United States, in the Silicon Valley region. The School of Law was founded in 1911. 
Santa Clara Law offers a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree, as well as several double-degree programs, including a J.D./Master of Business Administration (J.D./M.B.A.) and a J.D./Master of Science in Information Systems (MSIS) offered in conjunction with Santa Clara University's Leavey School of Business. In addition, the school offers Master of Laws (LL.M.) degrees in intellectual property law, in U.S. law for foreign lawyers, and in international and comparative law. Santa Clara Law also features specialized curricular programs in high tech and intellectual property law, international law, public interest, social justice law, and is one of few law schools to offer a certificate in privacy law.

Title: Dave Cortese
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dave_Cortese
Summary: David Dominic Cortese (born June 3, 1956) is an elected official from San Jose, California. He is currently serving in the California State Senate, representing District 15, which encompasses a majority of Santa Clara County. Before being elected to the California State Senate, Cortese served on the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors for 12 years, as a Councilmember and Vice Mayor for the City of San Jose for eight years, and for eight years as a trustee for the East Side Union High School District in San Jose. Cortese ran for mayor of San Jose and won the primary, losing the general election to District 3 councilmember Sam Liccardo.

Title: Levi's Stadium
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Levi%27s_Stadium
Summary: Levi's Stadium is an outdoor stadium near the West Coast of the United States, located in Santa Clara, California, just west of San Jose in the San Francisco Bay Area. It has served as the home venue for the San Francisco 49ers of the National Football League (NFL) since 2014. Located approximately forty miles (65 km) south of San Francisco, it is named after Levi Strauss & Co., which purchased naming rights in 2013.
In 2006, the 49ers proposed constructing a new stadium at Candlestick Point in San Francisco, the site of Candlestick Park, their home since 1971. The project, which included plans for retail space and housing improvements, was claimed to be of great potential benefit to the nearby historically blighted neighborhood of Hunters Point. After negotiations with the city of San Francisco fell through, the 49ers focused their attention on a site adjacent to their administrative offices and training facility in Santa Clara.
In June 2010, Santa Clara voters approved a measure authorizing the creation of the tax-exempt Santa Clara Stadium Authority to build and own the new football stadium and for the city to lease land to the authority. A construction loan raised from private investors was secured in December 2011, allowing construction to start in April 2012. Levi's Stadium opened on July 17, 2014.
Levi's Stadium was the site of the Pac-12 Football Championship Game from 2014 through 2019, before moving to Allegiant Stadium in Paradise, Nevada. Previously, that game was played on the home field of the division winner possessing the better record. The stadium hosted WWE's WrestleMania 31 on March 29, 2015, Super Bowl 50 on February 7, 2016, and Super Bowl LX on February 8, 2026. The stadium also hosted the 2019 College Football Playoff National Championship, and hosted six matches during the 2026 FIFA World Cup.

Title: 2025 Oakland mayoral special election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_Oakland_mayoral_special_election
Summary: The 2025 Oakland mayoral special election was held on April 15, 2025, to elect the next mayor of Oakland, California, following the recall of mayor Sheng Thao in November 2024.
City Council president Nikki Fortunato Bas served as interim mayor until January 6, 2025, when she resigned to take a seat on the Alameda County Board of Supervisors. Fellow city councilor Kevin Jenkins then took over as interim mayor. The filing period for mayoral candidates lasted from December 23, 2024, to January 17, 2025. The winner of this election will complete Thao's current term and will be up for re-election in 2026. The election used ranked-choice voting.
Multiple media and news organizations called the race for Barbara Lee on April 18, three days after the election. While Lee carried the majority of the city’s neighborhoods, Loren Taylor outperformed in the Oakland Hills, which the San Francisco Chronicle described as "Oakland’s whitest, wealthiest and most economically conservative” neighborhoods, and which also had the highest turnout rate in the election.