Title: Rotterdam
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rotterdam
Summary: Rotterdam ( ROT-ər-dam, UK also  ROT-ər-DAM; Dutch: [ˌrɔtərˈdɑm] ) is the second-largest city in the Netherlands by population and the largest by area (319.4 km2). It is in the province of South Holland, part of the North Sea mouth of the Rhine–Meuse–Scheldt delta, via the New Meuse inland shipping channel, dug to connect to the Meuse at first and now to the Rhine.
Rotterdam's history goes back to 1270, when a dam was constructed in the Rotte. In 1340, Rotterdam was granted city rights by William IV, Count of Holland.
The Rotterdam–The Hague metropolitan area, with a population of approximately 2.7 million, is the 10th-largest in the European Union and the most populous in the country.
A major logistic and economic centre, Rotterdam is Europe's largest seaport. In 2022, Rotterdam had a population of 655,468 and is home to over 180 different nationalities.
Rotterdam is known for its university, riverside setting, lively cultural life, maritime heritage and modern architecture. The near-complete destruction of the city centre during the World War II German bombing has resulted in a varied architectural landscape, including skyscrapers designed by architects such as Rem Koolhaas, Piet Blom and Ben van Berkel.
The Rhine, Meuse and Scheldt give waterway access into the heart of Western Europe, including the highly industrialized Ruhr. The extensive distribution system including rail, roads, and waterways have earned Rotterdam the nicknames "Gateway to Europe" and "Gateway to the World".

Title: Bonaventure Kalou
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bonaventure_Kalou
Summary: Bonaventure Kalou (born 12 January 1978) is an Ivorian former professional footballer who played as an attacking midfielder. He serves as elected mayor of Vavoua.

Title: Concetto Lo Bello
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concetto_Lo_Bello
Summary: Concetto Lo Bello  (13 May 1924 – 9 September 1991) was an Italian association football international referee. He holds the record for refereeing the most games in Serie A (328).

Title: Paddy Holohan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paddy_Holohan
Summary: Patrick Pearse Holohan (born 3 May 1988) is an Irish politician and retired mixed martial artist who previously competed in the flyweight division of the Ultimate Fighting Championship. A professional MMA competitor from 2007 until his retirement in 2016, Holohan also competed for the promotion Cage Contender and was a competitor on The Ultimate Fighter 18.

Title: Saskia Stuiveling
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saskia_Stuiveling
Summary: Saskia Jenne Stuiveling (3 May 1945 – 20 April 2017) was a Dutch politician and public administrator who served as president of the Netherlands Court of Audit (Algemene Rekenkamer) from 1999 to 2015. She was the first woman to hold this position and played a significant role in modernising public accountability and financial oversight in the Netherlands.