Title: Christy Hui
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christy_Hui
Summary: Christy Hui (許麗緹) is a Chinese film producer and director, who is best known as the creator of Xiaolin Showdown and its spin-off Xiaolin Chronicles. Hui also helped in launching the first pan-Asian cable satellite channel, AXN.

Title: Elan Lee
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elan_Lee
Summary: Elan Lee (born January 26, 1975) is an American game designer, developer, and creator. He has designed games for the Xbox; helped create the world’s first Alternate Reality Games; and with Matthew Inman created the card game Exploding Kittens, whose Kickstarter campaign was the most-backed of its day. He and Inman founded the Exploding Kittens company in 2015.

Title: Oculus Rift
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oculus_Rift
Summary: Oculus Rift is a discontinued line of virtual reality headsets developed and manufactured by Oculus VR, a virtual reality company founded by Palmer Luckey. It was the first virtual reality headset to provide a realistic experience at an accessible price, utilizing novel technology to increase quality and reduce cost by orders of magnitude compared to earlier systems. The first headset in the line was the Oculus Rift Development Kit 1 (DK1), released on March 28, 2013. The last was the Oculus Rift S, discontinued in April 2021.
The Rift went through various pre-production models prior to the release of the Oculus Rift CV1, the first Oculus Rift intended for use by the general public. Two of these, the DK1 in early-2013 and DK2 in mid-2014, were intended to provide content developers with a development kit platform to create content for the Rift's eventual consumer release. However, both development kits were purchased by many gaming enthusiasts who wished to get an early preview of the technology. The Rift saw its official consumer release in March 2016 with the Oculus Rift CV1, and was eventually replaced in March 2019 by the Oculus Rift S. The Oculus Rift software library is still compatible with its successor, the Oculus Go and the Oculus Quest.

Title: Allbirds
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allbirds
Summary: Allbirds is an American footwear and apparel brand that was co-founded in 2015 by Tim Brown and Joey Zwillinger. It is known for their minimalist designs, association with environmental, social, and governance (ESG) principles, and Silicon Valley. Its business model has primarily relied on direct-to-consumer commerce through its website and brick and mortar stores, although its physical retail has been closed.
Allbirds was founded through an initial fundraising of US$119,000 on Kickstarter and based its corporate identity on sustainability. Since the 2020s, the company has been criticized by legal scholars for greenwashing after a case about their reporting of carbon offsets was dismissed.
During the late 2010s, the brand's shoes became popular among tech workers in major US cities, particularly in Silicon Valley.
Allbirds went public on November 3, 2021, but experienced poor sales soon afterwards; executive turnover followed the company through the end of 2024. On April 8, 2024, the company received a non-compliance notice from Nasdaq for performing below $1 for over 30 consecutive days.
On March 30, 2026, Allbirds announced that it was selling its shoe business, trademarks and all assets and liabilities to American Exchange Group for $39 million. Two weeks later, the company announced it would be pivoting to providing computing infrastructure for artificial intelligence and renaming itself  Smartbird.

Title: Kano Computing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kano_Computing
Summary: Kano Computing is a London-based startup that specializes in computer hardware and software. Founded in January 2013, the company focuses on creating educational kits that utilize Raspberry Pi single-board computers to teach STEM subjects to children. Kano Computing is known for its innovative approach to technology education and has gained recognition for its products and initiatives in the tech industry.
The company received recognition for its  approach, securing funding through crowdfunding campaigns and a £14 million investment from HSBC. Collaborations with Kanye West and Novak Djokovic highlighted Kano's impact in the tech and education sectors. Accolades include Fast Company's 50 Most Innovative Companies list, Time's Invention of the Year awards, and  the Golden Lion at the Cannes Lions global marketing awards.