Title: List of best-selling Game Boy video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_Game_Boy_video_games
Summary: This is a list of video games for the Game Boy and Game Boy Color handheld video game consoles that have sold or shipped at least one million copies. It includes games with publicly available sales figures as well as those that received the Player's Choice label for surpassing one million units sold.
The best-selling title is the first generation of Pokémon (Red/Blue and Yellow), released in 1996, with combined sales of approximately 46 million units worldwide. The second best-selling game is Tetris, originally released in Japan on June 14, 1989. Frequently bundled with the Game Boy, over 35 million copies of Tetris were shipped worldwide.  It is followed by the best-selling Game Boy Color game, the second generation of Pokémon (Gold/Silver and Crystal), which collectively sold 29 million units. Rounding out the top five are Super Mario Land, the first Super Mario title on the platform, with over 18 million units sold, and Dr. Mario, which surpassed 5.34 million copies. The most successful franchises on the Game Boy and Game Boy Color include Pokémon (84.54 million combined units), Tetris (38.12 million), Super Mario (34.39 million), Donkey Kong (12.55 million), and Kirby (10.91 million).
In total, 67 Game Boy and Game Boy Color games have been confirmed to have sold or shipped at least one million units. Of these, 20 were developed by Nintendo's internal studios. Capcom follows with seven million-selling titles, while Game Freak, Rare, and Tose each have five. Other publishers with multiple million-selling games include Konami (three titles) and both Bandai and Enix (two titles each).

Title: List of best-selling GameCube video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_GameCube_video_games
Summary: This is a list of video games for the GameCube video game console that have sold or shipped at least one million copies. The best-selling game on the GameCube is Super Smash Bros. Melee. First released in Japan on November 21, 2001, it went on to sell just over 7.4 million units worldwide. The second best-selling game was Mario Kart: Double Dash, selling 6.88 million units. Super Mario Sunshine is the console's third best-selling game, with 5.91 million units.
There are a total of 36 GameCube games on this list which are confirmed to have sold or shipped at least one million units. Of these, eight were developed by internal Nintendo development divisions. Other developers with the most million-selling titles include Hudson Soft and Namco with four games each, and Capcom with three games. Of the 36 games on this list, 26 were published in one or more regions by Nintendo. Other publishers with multiple million-selling games include Sega with five games, all of which being in the Sonic the Hedgehog franchise, Capcom with three games, and The Pokémon Company with two games. The best-selling franchises on GameCube include Resident Evil (4.2 million combined sales), The Legend of Zelda (5.75 million combined sales), Sonic the Hedgehog (7.1 million combined sales), and most notably Mario (26.68 million combined sales).
By June 30, 2024, 208.58 million total copies of games had been sold for the GameCube. Despite coming in at 3rd place during the 6th generation of video game consoles, it has the highest attach rate of any Nintendo console at 9.59.

Title: The Last of Us (video game)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Last_of_Us_(video_game)
Summary: The Last of Us is a 2013 action-adventure game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. Players control Joel, a smuggler tasked with escorting a teenage girl, Ellie, across a post-apocalyptic United States. The Last of Us is played from a third-person perspective. Players use firearms, improvised weapons, and stealth to defend against hostile humans and cannibalistic creatures infected by a mutated fungus. In the online multiplayer mode, up to eight players engage in cooperative and competitive gameplay.
The game's development began in 2009 after the release of Naughty Dog's previous game, Uncharted 2: Among Thieves. The studio split into two teams for the first time, with one developing The Last of Us and the other Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception. Troy Baker and Ashley Johnson portrayed Joel and Ellie through voice and motion capture, and assisted creative director Neil Druckmann with developing the characters and story; Joel and Ellie's relationship became the focus of development, with all other elements crafted around it. The score was composed and performed by Gustavo Santaolalla.
The Last of Us was released for the PlayStation 3 in 2013 to critical acclaim for its narrative, gameplay, visuals, sound design, score, characterization, depiction of violence, and portrayal of female characters. It became one of the best-selling video games, selling over 1.3 million copies in its first week and 17 million by April 2018. Its year-end accolades include Game of the Year awards from several gaming publications and awards ceremonies. It is considered one of the most significant seventh-generation console games and among the best video games.
Naughty Dog released several downloadable content additions; The Last of Us: Left Behind adds a single-player campaign following Ellie and her best friend Riley. A remastered version, The Last of Us Remastered, was released for the PlayStation 4 in 2014, and a remake, The Last of Us Part I, was released for the PlayStation 5 in 2022 and on Windows in 2023. A sequel, The Last of Us Part II, was released in 2020. Other The Last of Us media includes a comic book in 2013, a live show in 2014, a television adaptation by HBO in 2023, and a tabletop game by Themeborne in 2024.

Title: The Last of Us Part II
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Last_of_Us_Part_II
Summary: The Last of Us Part II is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. Set four years after The Last of Us (2013), the game focuses on two playable characters in a post-apocalyptic United States whose lives intertwine: Ellie, who sets out in revenge for Joel's murder, and Abby, a soldier who killed Joel and becomes involved in a conflict between her militia and a religious cult. The game uses a third-person perspective; the player must fight human enemies and zombie-like creatures with firearms, improvised weapons, and stealth.
The game's development began in 2014, after the release of The Last of Us Remastered. Neil Druckmann returned as creative director, co-writing the story with Halley Gross. The themes of revenge and retribution were inspired by Druckmann's experiences growing up in Israel. Ashley Johnson reprises her role as Ellie, while Laura Bailey was cast as Abby. Their performances included the simultaneous recording of motion and voice. Gustavo Santaolalla returned to compose and perform the score. The developers pushed the PlayStation 4's technical capabilities. Development reportedly included a crunch schedule of 12-hour workdays and cost around US$220 million, making it one of the most expensive video games to develop.
Following delays, partly due to the COVID-19 pandemic, The Last of Us Part II was released for the PlayStation 4 in June 2020. A remastered version was released for the PlayStation 5 in January 2024 and for Windows in April 2025. The game received acclaim for its gameplay, audio design, score, performances, characters, and visual fidelity, though its narrative and themes divided critics. Discourse became adversarial and the game was review bombed on Metacritic, with some players criticizing the story and characters. It is one of the best-selling PlayStation 4 games and the fastest-selling PlayStation 4 exclusive, with over four million units sold in its release weekend and ten million by 2022. It won multiple accolades from awards shows and gaming publications, including 326 Game of the Year awards, and is considered one of the most significant eighth-generation console games and among the best video games.

Title: List of best-selling video games in the United States by year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_video_games_in_the_United_States_by_year
Summary: This is a listing of the best-selling video games in the United States annually by units sold since 1980, with sales figures from Circana since 1994. The United States is a very competitive market for video game developers. Games from different developers around the world have entered the annual lists of top ten best-selling games in the United States. The most successful developers are mostly from the United States, Japan, Canada, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
Among the forty-three reported annual top-sellers between 1980 and 2024, thirteen were published by Activision Blizzard and another thirteen by Nintendo, four each by Atari and Take-Two Interactive, three by Electronic Arts, and two each by Sega and Acclaim Entertainment. Video game publishers Activision Blizzard and Electronic Arts managed to enter the list of ten best-selling games every single year with at least one of their games for the last fifteen years in a row. Of the twelve best-selling games released in the last fourteen years, twelve were from Call of Duty franchise and published by Activision Blizzard. Madden NFL and the Call of Duty series have been on the annual top ten best-sellers list twelve times over the last thirteen years. Call of Duty has been the best-selling video game series in the US for the past sixteen years.
The Circana lists do not encompass the industry as a whole, as some publishers, developers, and the majority of indie developers do not share data with NPD. Some video games companies also do not share physical games sales and some digital storefront sales such as Steam and Battle.net. Companies that share data with NPD include: Bandai Namco Entertainment, Capcom, Disney Interactive, Embracer Group, Konami, Krafton, Marvelous, NCSoft, Sega, Sony Interactive Entertainment, Square Enix, Take-Two Interactive, Warner Bros. Games, and Wizard of the Coast.
Ubisoft has stopped sharing data with Circana in 2025. Electronic Arts, Microsoft and Nintendo does not share digital sales data with the NPD. Blizzard Entertainment does not share Battle.net sales, and other publishers may not share their data. As a result, some games are underrepresented.