Title: Electric vehicle
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_vehicle
Summary: An electric vehicle (EV) is a vehicle propelled mostly by electric power. EVs encompass electric cars and other electric road vehicles (buses, trucks and personal transporters) as well as other types of land vehicles, such as electric rail vehicles (trains, trams and monorails). It also includes electric watercraft (boats and submersibles), aircraft (fixed-wing and multirotors), and spacecraft.
EVs originated in the late 19th century. Electricity was among the preferred methods for powering early motor vehicles because it was quieter, provided comfort, and ease of operation. However, its limited range hindered mass adoption throughout the 20th century. Internal combustion engines were the dominant propulsion mechanisms for cars and trucks for about 100 years, although electricity-powered locomotion became commonplace in other vehicle types, such as overhead line-powered mass transit vehicles, as well as special purpose vehicles such as mobility scooters.
Since the late 20th century, technological advances in lithium batteries—which offer superior energy density and current output versus lead-acid batteries—has revived public interest as zero-emission vehicle options. Manufacturers mostly switched to hybrids that use internal combustion engines like conventional vehicles, but add electric motors as a supplement, powered by electricity produced internally by motor-generators and recovered from regenerative braking. Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, which can be recharged from an electric grid and use electric motors as the primary propulsion rather than as a supplement to combustion engines, did not see any mass production until the late 2000s, and battery electric cars did not become practical options for the consumer market until the 2010s. Although spacecraft have been propelled by electricity since the 1960s, non-rocket spacelaunch from Earth remains science fiction.

Technological progress in electric vehicle batteries, electric traction motors and automotive electronics (particularly electronic control units) has made electric cars more feasible and, in some cases, more cost-efficient than conventional ICE vehicles during the 21st century, with market penetration in some countries like China reaching nearly half of all new vehicles sold. As a means of reducing tailpipe emissions of greenhouse gases and other air pollutants, and to reduce the dependency on fossil fuels, government incentives are also available in many areas to promote the adoption of electric vehicles. As of 2026, the electric vehicle industry in China produces more than the rest of the world combined.

Title: History of the electric vehicle
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_electric_vehicle
Summary: Electric vehicles became possible in 1827 when Hungarian priest Ányos Jedlik built the first electric motor; the next year he used it to power a small model car powered by a non-rechargeable battery.
In 1838, Robert Davidson built an electric locomotive that attained a speed of four miles per hour (6 km/h). A British patent was granted in 1840 for the use of rails as conductors of electric current, and similar US patents were issued to Lilley and Colten in 1847.
Usable electric cars appeared during the 1890s. An electric car held the vehicular land speed record until around 1900. In the early 20th century, the high cost, low top speed, and short range of battery electric vehicles left them unable to compete with internal combustion engine (ICE)  vehicles for consumer use. Electric vehicles were used for forklift trucks, freight equipment platform trucks, and ambulances.

The first mass-produced electric cars appeared in America in the early 1900s. In 1902, the Studebaker Automobile Company entered the automotive business with electric cars. In 1900, 28 percent of the cars on the road in the US were electric. EVs were so popular that even President Woodrow Wilson and his secret service agents toured Washington, D.C., in their Milburn Light Electrics. Electric trucks were an established niche into the 1920s.
In the 20th century, electric rail became common.  Tow tractors and urban delivery vehicles, such as the iconic British milk float emerged. For most of the 20th century, the UK was the world's largest user of electric road vehicles.
Electric trains transported coal from underground mines, since the motors did not use valuable oxygen. Switzerland's lack of fossil fuel resources forced the electrification of its rail network.
At the beginning of the 21st century, interest in electric and alternative fuel vehicles increased due to concern over their emissions and advancing battery technology.
Cumulative sales of light-duty plug-in electric cars reached 10 million units by the end of 2020.

Title: Hybrid electric vehicle
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hybrid_electric_vehicle
Summary: A hybrid electric vehicle (HEV) is a type of hybrid vehicle that couples a conventional internal combustion engine (ICE) with one or more electric engines into a combined propulsion system. The presence of the electric powertrain, which has inherently better energy conversion efficiency, is intended to achieve either better fuel economy or better acceleration performance than a conventional vehicle. There is a variety of HEV types and the degree to which each functions as an electric vehicle (EV) also varies. The most common form of HEV is hybrid electric passenger cars, although hybrid electric trucks (pickups, tow trucks and tractors), buses, motorboats, and aircraft also exist.
Modern HEVs use energy recovery technologies such as motor–generator units and regenerative braking to recycle the vehicle's kinetic energy to electric energy via an alternator, which is stored in a battery pack or a supercapacitor. Some varieties of HEV use an internal combustion engine to directly drive an electrical generator, which either recharges the vehicle's batteries or directly powers the electric traction motors; this combination is known as a range extender. Many HEVs reduce idle emissions by temporarily shutting down the combustion engine at idle (such as when waiting at the traffic light) and restarting it when needed; this is known as a start-stop system. A hybrid-electric system produces less tailpipe emissions than a comparably sized petrol engine vehicle since the hybrid's petrol engine usually has smaller displacement and thus lower fuel consumption than that of a conventional petrol-powered vehicle. If the engine is not used to drive the car directly, it can be geared to run at maximum efficiency, further improving fuel economy.
Ferdinand Porsche developed the Lohner–Porsche in 1901. But hybrid electric vehicles did not become widely available until the release of the Toyota Prius in Japan in 1997, followed by the Honda Insight in 1999. Initially, hybrid seemed unnecessary due to the low cost of petrol. Worldwide increases in the price of petroleum caused many automakers to release hybrids in the late 2000s; they are now perceived as a core segment of the automotive market of the future.
As of April 2020, over 17 million hybrid electric vehicles have been sold worldwide since their inception in 1997. Japan has the world's largest hybrid electric vehicle fleet with 7.5 million hybrids registered as of March 2018. Japan also has the world's highest hybrid market penetration with hybrids representing 19.0% of all passenger cars on the road as of March 2018, both figures excluding kei cars. As of December 2020, the U.S. ranked second with cumulative sales of 5.8 million units since 1999, and, as of July 2020, Europe listed third with 3.0 million cars delivered since 2000.
Global sales are led by the Toyota Motor Corporation with more than 15 million Lexus and Toyota hybrids sold as of January 2020, followed by Honda Motor Co., Ltd. with cumulative global sales of more than 1.35 million hybrids as of June 2014; As of September 2022, worldwide hybrid sales are led by the Toyota Prius liftback, with cumulative sales of 5 million units. The Prius nameplate had sold more than 6 million hybrids up to January 2017. Global Lexus hybrid sales achieved the 1 million unit milestone in March 2016. As of January 2017, the conventional Prius is the all-time best-selling hybrid car in both Japan and the U.S., with sales of over 1.8 million in Japan and 1.75 million in the U.S.

Title: List of best-selling automobiles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_automobiles
Summary: Since the introduction of the Benz Patent Motorwagen in 1886, some passenger cars and light trucks can claim to being the highest selling vehicles in the automobile markets.
While references to verify the manufacturers' claims have been included, there is always the possibility of inaccuracy or hyperbole. A single vehicle can be sold concurrently under several nameplates in different markets, as with, for example, the Nissan Sunny; in such circumstances, manufacturers often provide only cumulative units sold figures for all models. As a result, there is no definitive standard for measuring units sold; Chrysler minivans has sold over 16 million worldwide, while Volkswagen has claimed its Beetle is the best-selling car in history, as it did not substantially change throughout its production run. By contrast, Toyota has applied the Corolla nameplate to 12 generations since 1966, which have sold over 50 million through 2021.

Title: Plug-in electric vehicle
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plug-in_electric_vehicle
Summary: A plug-in electric vehicle is any road vehicle that can utilize an external source of electricity (such as a wall socket that connects to the power grid) via a detachable power cable to store electrical energy within its onboard rechargeable battery packs, which will in turn power an electric traction motor that propels the vehicle's drive wheels. It is a subset of electric vehicles and includes all-electric/battery electric vehicles (BEVs) and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) both of which are capable of sustained all-electric driving within a designated range due to the ability to fully charge their batteries before a journey.
Plug-in electric vehicles have several benefits compared to conventional internal combustion engine vehicles. All-electric vehicles have lower operating and maintenance costs, and produce little or no air pollution when under all-electric mode, thus (depending on the electricity source) reducing societal dependence on fossil fuels and significantly decreasing greenhouse gas emissions, but recharging takes longer time than refueling and is heavily reliant on sufficient charging infrastructures to remain operationally practical. Plug-in hybrid vehicles are a good in-between option that provides most of electric vehicles' benefits when they are operating in electric mode, though typically having shorter all-electric ranges, but have the auxiliary option of driving as a conventional hybrid vehicle when the battery is low, using its internal combustion engine (usually a gasoline engine) to alleviate the range anxiety that accompanies current electric vehicles.
Sales of the first series production plug-in electric vehicles began in December 2008 with the introduction of the plug-in hybrid BYD F3DM, and then with the all-electric Mitsubishi i-MiEV in July 2009, but global retail sales only gained traction after the introduction of the mass production all-electric Nissan Leaf and the plug-in hybrid Chevrolet Volt in December 2011. Cumulative global sales of highway-legal plug-in electric passenger cars and light utility vehicles achieved the 1 million unit mark in September 2015, 5 million in December 2018. and the 10 million unit milestone in 2020. Despite the rapid growth experienced, however, the stock of plug-in electric vehicles represented just 1% of all passengers vehicles on the world's roads by the end of 2020, of which pure electrics constituted two thirds.
As of December 2023, the Tesla Model Y ranked as the world's top selling highway-capable plug-in electric car in history. The Tesla Model 3 was the first electric car to achieve global sales of more than 1,000,000 units. The BYD Song DM SUV series is the world's all-time best selling plug-in hybrid, with global sales over 1,050,000 units through December 2023. As of December 2021, China had the world's largest stock of highway legal plug-in electric passenger cars with 7.84 million units, representing 46% of the world's stock of plug-in cars. Europe ranked next with about 5.6 million light-duty plug-in cars and vans at the end of 2021, accounting for around 32% of the global stock. The U.S. cumulative sales totaled about 2.32 million plug-in cars through December 2021. As of July 2021, Germany is the leading European country with cumulative sales of 1 million plug-in vehicles on the road, and also has led the continent plug-in sales since 2019. Norway has the highest market penetration per capita in the world, and also achieved in 2021 the world's largest annual plug-in market share ever registered, 86.2% of new car sales.