Title: Seoul National University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul_National_University
Summary: Seoul National University (SNU; Korean: 서울대학교) is a public research university in Seoul, South Korea. Founded in 1946 by the merger of ten institutions in the Seoul area, it is one of the SKY universities and a part of the Flagship Korean National Universities.
The university's main campus is located in Gwanak, and two additional campuses are located in Daehangno and Pyeongchang. The university comprises sixteen colleges, one graduate school and nine professional schools. The student body consists of nearly 16,000 undergraduate and 16,000 graduate students.

Title: University of Seoul
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Seoul
Summary: The University of Seoul is a four-year public comprehensive university in Dongdaemun-gu.
It has its origins as Gyeongseong Public Agricultural School, which opened on May 1, 1918, and is currently the only four-year comprehensive university among public universities in Korea.[3]  It is operated by the Seoul Metropolitan Government, and the mayor of Seoul is responsible for its operation as the chairman of the Seoul University Steering Committee. The University of Seoul comprises 9 colleges, 39 departments, 10 graduate schools, 2 affiliated institutions, and 14 research institutes.

Title: Seoul National University of Science and Technology
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul_National_University_of_Science_and_Technology
Summary: Seoul National University of Science and Technology (abbreviated SeoulTech) is a national university located in Nowon-gu, Seoul, South Korea.
Seoul National University of Science and Technology originated from Public Eoeudong Vocational Continuing School. Later the school was re-organized as Gyeongseong Public Industrial School, Gyeonggi Technical College, and Seoul National University of Technology before it was finally reborn as Seoul National University of Science and Technology in September 2010 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of its foundation. The institution is also known as 'Seoultech'.
Today Seoultech is a large and comprehensive university consisting of six colleges, 23 departments, seven graduate schools and a student enrolment of 11,500 people in a spacious campus of 508,690 square meters (125.70 acres). This is the fifth-largest campus in the universities of Seoul. The campus, formerly occupied by the colleges of engineering of Seoul National University, is in Nowon-gu in the northern part of Seoul. Seoul National University of Science and Technology was ranked second in South Korea and 23rd in Asia in field of focused university in the 2015 by Quacquarelli Symonds (QS)
and ranked 15th in South Korea in the field of Science and Engineering in 2015 by Korea Economic Daily (한국경제신문).

Title: 2024 South Korean martial law crisis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_South_Korean_martial_law_crisis
Summary: On 3 December 2024, at 22:27 Korea Standard Time (KST), Yoon Suk Yeol, the then-president of South Korea, attempted a self-coup by declaring martial law during a televised address. In the address, he accused the Democratic Party (DPK), which held a majority in the National Assembly, of engaging in "anti-state activities" and collaborating with "North Korean communists" to undermine the country, describing their dominance as a "legislative dictatorship". The declaration suspended political activities, including sessions of the National Assembly and local legislatures, and imposed restrictions on the press. Yoon ordered the arrest of several political opponents, including leaders of both the DPK and his own People Power Party (PPP). It was the first declaration of martial law in South Korea since the military dictatorship of General Chun Doo-hwan in 1980.
The declaration was opposed by both parties and resulted in protests. At 01:02 on 4 December, 190 legislators who had arrived at the National Assembly Proceeding Hall unanimously passed a motion to lift martial law, despite attempts by the Republic of Korea Army Special Warfare Command to prevent the vote. At 04:30, Yoon and his cabinet lifted martial law and soon disbanded the Martial Law Command. The opposition began impeachment proceedings against Yoon and said it would continue to do so if he did not resign. Uproar over the declaration led to the resignation of several officials in Yoon's administration, including Defense Minister Kim Yong-hyun, who had urged Yoon to enact martial law shortly before the declaration and was second-in-command of the martial law order. Yoon, military officers, and other officials of Yoon's administration were investigated for their role in the implementation of the decree.
On 7 December, Yoon issued an apology for declaring martial law. The next day, the former Defense Minister Kim was arrested and sent to a detention facility for his role in the martial law order, where he attempted suicide shortly before a warrant could be filed against him. On 12 December, Yoon said that he would "fight to the end" and that the martial law declaration was an "act of governance" to protect against anti-state forces. It is more widely believed that the declaration was motivated by political issues with the DPK-controlled Assembly over repeated impeachment attempts against officials, opposition to his budget, and various scandals involving him and his wife Kim Keon Hee.
Yoon was impeached on 14 December by the National Assembly and suspended from office pending a final ruling by the Constitutional Court on whether to confirm his removal from the presidency. Prime Minister Han Duck-soo served as acting president until he himself was impeached on 27 December, making Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Choi Sang-mok acting president. However, Han's impeachment was overturned by the Constitutional Court on 24 March 2025, reinstating him as acting president. Yoon was arrested on 15 January 2025. On 26 January, he was indicted for leading an insurrection, becoming the first sitting president to be arrested and indicted in South Korean history. On 4 April, the Constitutional Court unanimously upheld Yoon's impeachment and removal from office over the martial law declaration. On 19 February 2026, Yoon and other figures involved in the incident were found guilty on insurrection charges. Yoon was sentenced to life in prison, while Kim Yong-hyun was sentenced to 30 years in prison.

Title: List of KAIST presidents
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_KAIST_presidents
Summary: The following is a list of all principals and presidents of KAIST from its founding as Korea Advanced Institute of Science (KAIS) in 1971.