Title: Academy Award for Best Picture
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Academy_Award_for_Best_Picture
Summary: The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards (also known as Oscars) presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) since the awards debuted on May 16, 1929. This award goes to the producers of the film and is the only category in which every member of the Academy is eligible to submit a nomination and vote on the final ballot. The Best Picture category is traditionally the final award of the night and is widely considered the most prestigious honor of the ceremony.
The Grand Staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, where the Academy Awards ceremonies have been held since 2002, showcase every film that has won the Best Picture title since the award's inception. There have been 621 films nominated for Best Picture and 98 winners.

Title: List of Indian submissions for the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Indian_submissions_for_the_Academy_Award_for_Best_International_Feature_Film
Summary: India has submitted films for the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film (formerly Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film) since 1957, a year after the incorporation of the category. The award is given annually by the United States Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to a feature-length motion picture produced outside the United States that contains primarily non-English dialogue. The "Best Foreign Language Film" category was not created until 1956; however, between 1947 and 1955, the academy presented a non-competitive Honorary Award for the best foreign language films released in the United States.
The Film Federation of India (FFI) appoints a committee to choose one film among those released that year to be submitted as India's official entry to the academy for a nomination for "Best Foreign Language Film" the following year. The chosen films, along with their English subtitles, are sent to the academy, where they are screened for the jury.
As of 2025, India has been nominated three times, for: 1957's Mother India (India's first submission, which came close to winning but lost to Nights of Cabiria by a single vote), 1988's Salaam Bombay! and 2001's Lagaan (2001).

Title: List of Academy Award–winning films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Academy_Award%E2%80%93winning_films
Summary: This is a list of Academy Award–winning films.
If a film won the Academy Award for Best Picture, its entry is listed in a shaded background with a boldface title.
Competitive Oscars are separated from non-competitive Oscars (i.e. Honorary Award, Special Achievement Award, Juvenile Award); as such, any films that were awarded a non-competitive award will be shown in brackets next to the number of competitive wins.

Title: Sinners (2025 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sinners_(2025_film)
Summary: Sinners is a 2025 American horror film produced, written, and directed by Ryan Coogler. Set in 1932 in the Mississippi Delta, it stars Michael B. Jordan in dual roles as criminal twin brothers who return to their hometown in the Jim Crow South, where they are confronted by a supernatural evil. The film co-stars Hailee Steinfeld, Miles Caton (in his film debut), Jack O'Connell, Wunmi Mosaku, Jayme Lawson, Omar Benson Miller, and Delroy Lindo.
Coogler began developing Sinners through his production company Proximity Media, with Jordan cast in the lead role. The project was announced in January 2024, and after a bidding war, Warner Bros. Pictures acquired distribution rights the following month. Additional roles were cast in April. Principal photography took place from April to July 2024. Longtime Coogler collaborator Ludwig Göransson composed the film's score and served as an executive producer.
Sinners premiered on April 3, 2025, at AMC Lincoln Square in New York City, and was theatrically released in United States on April 18, 2025. It received critical acclaim and was a commercial success, grossing $371 million worldwide against a budget of $90–100 million. The National Board of Review and the American Film Institute listed it among the top ten films of 2025. Sinners garnered many accolades, including a record-breaking 16 nominations at the 98th Academy Awards, winning four: Best Actor (Jordan), Best Original Screenplay (Coogler), Best Cinematography (Autumn Durald Arkapaw, the first woman to win the award), and Best Original Score (Göransson). It also received 13 BAFTA Awards nominations, winning three, including Coogler's win for Best Original Screenplay; four Critics' Choice Awards; two Golden Globe Awards; two Actor Awards (including Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture); and a historic 18 nominations and 13 wins at the 57th NAACP Image Awards, including the NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Motion Picture.

Title: 98th Academy Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/98th_Academy_Awards
Summary: The 98th Academy Awards ceremony, presented by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS), took place on March 15, 2026, at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, Los Angeles. During the gala, the AMPAS presented Academy Awards (commonly referred to as Oscars) in 24 categories honoring films released in 2025. The ceremony, televised in the United States by ABC and streamed on Hulu, was produced by Raj Kapoor and Katy Mullan, and was directed by Hamish Hamilton. Comedian Conan O'Brien hosted the show for the second consecutive year.
In related events, the Academy held its 16th Governors Awards ceremony at the Ray Dolby Ballroom of the Ovation Hollywood complex in Hollywood on November 16, 2025. The Academy Scientific and Technical Awards were presented by host Sofia Carson on April 28, 2026, in a ceremony at the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures in Los Angeles.
One Battle After Another won the most awards with six, including Best Picture and the inaugural award for Best Casting. Sinners received a record sixteen nominations and won four awards. Other winners included Frankenstein with three; KPop Demon Hunters with two; and All the Empty Rooms, Avatar: Fire and Ash, F1, The Girl Who Cried Pearls, Hamnet, Mr Nobody Against Putin, Sentimental Value, The Singers, Two People Exchanging Saliva, and Weapons with one each. The telecast drew 17.86 million viewers in the United States.