Title: The World's 50 Best Restaurants
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_World%27s_50_Best_Restaurants
Summary: The World's 50 Best Restaurants  is a list produced by the UK media company William Reed, which originally appeared in the British magazine Restaurant in 2002. The list and awards are no longer directly related to Restaurant, though they are owned by the same media company. 
In addition to the main 1–50 ranking, the organisation awards a series of special prizes for individuals and restaurants, including the One To Watch Award, the Icon Award, the Best Female Chef Award  and the Chefs' Choice Award, the latter based on votes from the fifty head chefs from the restaurants on the previous year's list. In specific regions the organisation also pre-announces a 51–100 list, showcasing more venues in the area. Often working as a barometer of global gastronomic trends, the list showcases a variety of cuisines from all over the world.

Title: Noma (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noma_(restaurant)
Summary: Noma () is a restaurant and food innovation lab founded by chef René Redzepi and Claus Meyer in Copenhagen, Denmark. The name is a syllabic abbreviation of the two Danish words "nordisk" (Nordic) and "mad" (food). Opened in 2003, the restaurant is known for its focus on foraging, invention and interpretation of New Nordic Cuisine. In 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, and 2021 it was ranked as the Best Restaurant in the World by Restaurant magazine. 
In January 2023, Redzepi announced that Noma would transition away from traditional restaurant service, with its final regular dinner service taking place in Kyoto, Japan, in December 2024. Noma continues to operate as a food lab and through periodic pop-up residencies.

Title: Maido (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maido_(restaurant)
Summary: Maido  is a fusion restaurant opened in October 2009 in Miraflores, Lima, Peru. It is owned and headed by chef Mitsuharu "Micha" Tsumura. Maido's dishes are rooted in Nikkei cuisine, which blends Peruvian and Japanese cuisines. Maido was ranked first in the World's 50 Best Restaurants in 2025.

Title: Alchemist (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alchemist_(restaurant)
Summary: Alchemist is a two Michelin-star restaurant founded and run by chef Rasmus Munk, in Copenhagen, Denmark. The restaurant is placed in the top 10 of The World's 50 Best Restaurants, ranking 8th in 2024 and 5th in 2025. In 2024, it was described by The New Yorker as "one of the most sought-after reservations in the fine-dining world". According to Munk, the restaurant has "a holistic approach extending beyond the plate to create thought-provoking, aesthetical, emotional and gastrophysical meal experiences."