Title: Pamela Anderson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pamela_Anderson
Summary: Pamela Denise Anderson (born July 1, 1967) is a Canadian-American actress, model and media personality. She came to public prominence after being selected as the February 1990 Playboy Playmate of the Month following her appearance on the cover of the magazine's October 1989 issue. She went on to make regular appearances on the magazine's cover, and holds the record for appearing on the most Playboy covers of any individual.
Anderson became known to a wider audience with her role on the ABC sitcom Home Improvement (1991–1993), before gaining international recognition for her starring role as "C.J." Parker on the action drama series Baywatch (1992–1997), which further cemented her status as a sex symbol. In 1995, home videos of Anderson with her then-husband, Tommy Lee, were stolen, spliced together, and sold as a sex tape, which resulted in a legal fight and made her the subject of controversy.
Anderson starred as Vallery Irons in the syndicated series V.I.P. (1998–2002) and as Skyler Dayton in the Fox sitcom Stacked (2005–2006). Her film credits include Barb Wire (1996), Scary Movie 3 (2003), Borat (2006), Baywatch (2017), and City Hunter (2018). She starred in the reality series Pam: Girl on the Loose (2008) and appeared as a contestant on the Dancing with the Stars franchise (2010–2012, 2018). She saw a career resurgence in the 2020s after her Broadway debut as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago (2022) and the 2023 releases of the Netflix documentary Pamela, a Love Story and her autobiography, Love, Pamela. For starring in the independent drama film The Last Showgirl (2024), she received nominations for the Golden Globe Award and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress. She starred in the comedy film The Naked Gun (2025).
Anderson has supported various charitable causes, particularly animal rights and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), and endorses plant-based cooking. She released the plant-based cookbook I Love You: Recipes from the Heart (2024), and has hosted the Flavour Network plant-based cooking show Pamela's Cooking with Love (2025–present).

Title: Paul Thomas Anderson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Thomas_Anderson
Summary: Paul Thomas Anderson (born June 26, 1970), also known by his initials PTA, is an American filmmaker. Often described as one of the preeminent filmmakers of his generation, he is the recipient of numerous accolades, including three Academy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards and four BAFTAs, as well as a nomination for a Grammy Award. He is the only person to have won the Academy Award for Best Director and directorial prizes at Europe's three major film festivals: Cannes Film Festival, Venice Film Festival, and the Berlin International Film Festival. In addition to those accolades, he won the Golden Bear at the Berlin International Film Festival.
Many of Anderson's films are psychological dramas characterized by depictions of desperate characters and explorations of dysfunctional families, alienation, loneliness, and redemption, alongside a bold visual style that uses constantly moving cameras and long takes. After his directorial debut, Hard Eight (1996), Anderson had critical and commercial success with Boogie Nights (1997), and received further accolades with Magnolia (1999) and Punch-Drunk Love (2002).
There Will Be Blood (2007), Anderson's fifth film, is regarded as one of the greatest films of the 21st century. It was followed by The Master (2012) and Inherent Vice (2014), an adaptation of the 2009 novel by Thomas Pynchon. Anderson's next three films, Phantom Thread (2017), Licorice Pizza (2021) and One Battle After Another (2025) were all nominated for the Academy Awards for Best Picture and Best Director, while the last earned him wins for both and Best Adapted Screenplay and became his highest-grossing film.
Anderson is noted for his collaborations with the cinematographer Robert Elswit, the costume designer Mark Bridges, the composers Jon Brion and Jonny Greenwood, and actors including Philip Seymour Hoffman, Daniel Day-Lewis, John C. Reilly, and Joaquin Phoenix. He has directed music videos for artists including Fiona Apple, Haim, Aimee Mann, Joanna Newsom, Michael Penn, Radiohead, and the Smile. He also directed a 2015 documentary about Greenwood's album Junun, and the short music film Anima (2019) for the Radiohead singer Thom Yorke.

Title: University of St. Thomas (Minnesota)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_St._Thomas_(Minnesota)
Summary: The University of St. Thomas (also known as UST, simply St. Thomas, or University of St. Thomas, Minnesota) is a private Catholic research university with campuses in Saint Paul and Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States. Founded in 1885 as a Catholic seminary, it is named after Thomas Aquinas, the medieval Catholic theologian, philosopher, and patron saint of students. In 2025, the university enrolled over 9,000 undergraduate and graduate students across its campuses.

Title: John Thomas Dye School
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Thomas_Dye_School
Summary: The John Thomas Dye School, nicknamed JTD, is an independent private coeducational nonsectarian elementary day school located in the Bel-Air area of Los Angeles, California, serving students in kindergarten through sixth grade.
The school was founded in 1929 as the Brentwood Town and Country School by Cathryn Roberts Dye and her husband John Thomas Dye II with its first classes held in the Dyes' living room, and their son John Thomas Dye III its first student. The first permanent facility was built in 1949 and named the Bel Air Town and Country School, on the site still occupied by the school today. The school building was designed by noted Santa Monica architect John Byers.
In 1959, the School was renamed The John Thomas Dye School in honor of John Thomas Dye III, who, while serving as a B-17G navigator, was killed on 16 February 1945 by enemy action near Hall in Tirol, Austria in World War II.

Title: The Master (2012 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Master_(2012_film)
Summary: The Master is a 2012 American period psychological drama film written and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson and starring Joaquin Phoenix, Philip Seymour Hoffman, and Amy Adams. It tells the story of Freddie Quell (Phoenix), a World War II Navy veteran struggling to adjust to a post-war society, who meets Lancaster Dodd (Hoffman), the leader of a cult known as The Cause. Dodd sees something in Quell and accepts him into the movement. Quell takes a liking to The Cause and begins traveling with Dodd's family to spread his teachings.
The film was produced by Annapurna Pictures and Ghoulardi Film Company and distributed by The Weinstein Company. The film's inspirations were varied: it was partly inspired by Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard, early drafts of Anderson's There Will Be Blood, the novel V. by Thomas Pynchon, John Huston's documentary Let There Be Light about WWII veterans with PTSD, drunken Navy stories that Jason Robards had told to Anderson while filming Magnolia, and the life story of author John Steinbeck. The Master was shot almost entirely on 65 mm film stock, making it the first fiction feature to be shot and released in 70mm since Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet in 1996.
Initially, the film was set up with Universal Pictures, but fell through due to script and budget problems. It was first publicly shown on August 3, 2012, at the American Cinematheque in 70 mm and screened variously in the same way, before officially premiering at the Venice Film Festival on September 1, where it won three awards: the FIPRESCI Award for Best Film; the Silver Lion for Anderson's direction; and the Volpi Cup for Best Actor, shared by Phoenix and Hoffman. It was released in theaters in the United States on September 14, 2012, to critical acclaim; its performances (particularly those from the three leads), screenplay, direction, plausibility, and realistic portrayal of post-World War II Americans were praised.
Considered one of Anderson's finest works and one of the best films of the 2010s and the 21st century, it received three Oscar nominations: Best Actor for Phoenix, Best Supporting Actor for Hoffman, and Best Supporting Actress for Adams. In 2016, The Master was ranked the 24th in the BBC's 100 Greatest Films of the 21st Century. Anderson has repeatedly stated that The Master is his favorite film of those he has made.