Title: James Beard Foundation Award: 2020s
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Beard_Foundation_Award:_2020s
Summary: The James Beard Foundation Awards are annual awards presented by the James Beard Foundation to recognize culinary professionals in the United States. The awards recognize chefs, restaurateurs, authors and journalists each year, and are generally scheduled around James Beard's May birthday. 
The foundation also awards annually since 1998 the designation of America's Classic for local independently-owned restaurants that reflect the character of the community.

Title: James Beard Foundation Award for Best New Restaurant
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Beard_Foundation_Award_for_Best_New_Restaurant
Summary: Recipients of the James Beard Foundation Award for Best New Restaurant include:

1995: Nobu, New York City
1996: Brasserie Jo, Chicago
1997: Rose Pistola, San Francisco
1998: Jean-Georges, New York City
1999: Babbo, New York City
2000: Gary Danko, San Francisco
2001: Alain Ducasse, New York City
2002: Craft: New York City
2003: L'Impero, New York City
2004: Bradley Ogden, Las Vegas
2005: Per Se, New York City
2006: The Modern, New York City
2007: L'Atelier de Joël Robuchon, New York City
2008: Central Michel Richard, Washington, D.C.
2009: Momofuku Ko, New York City
2010: Marea, New York City
2011: ABC Kitchen, New York City
2012: Next, Chicago
2013: State Bird Provisions, San Francisco
2014: Pêche Seafood Grill, New Orleans
2015: Bâtard, New York City
2016: Shaya, New Orleans
2017: Le Coucou, New York City
2018: JuneBaby, Seattle
2019: Frenchette, New York City
2022: Owamni, Minneapolis
2023: Kann, Portland, Oregon
2024: Dakar NOLA, New Orleans
2025: Bûcheron, Minneapolis
2026: Lei, New York City

Title: List of Michelin-starred restaurants in Mexico
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Michelin-starred_restaurants_in_Mexico
Summary: As of the 2026 Michelin Guide edition, there are 29 restaurants in Mexico with a Michelin-star rating. 
The Michelin Guides have been published by the French tire company Michelin since 1900. They were designed as a guide to tell drivers about eateries they recommended to visit and to subtly sponsor their tires, by encouraging drivers to use their cars more and therefore need to replace the tires as they wore out. Over time, the stars that were given out became more valuable.
The Michelin Guide debuted in Mexico in 2024. Inspectors visited five states—Baja California, Baja California Sur, Nuevo León, Oaxaca, and Quintana Roo—and the capital city, Mexico City. Sixteen restaurants earned one star and two, Pujol and Quintonil, received two. No restaurant earned three stars. Among the awarded restaurants, Michelin included a taco stand, Taquería El Califa de León. Gwendal Poullennec, international director of the Michelin guides, said it took time to choose which restaurants to visit. He added that 11 Mexican food restaurants in other countries had one Michelin star, and two had two as of 2023.
Multiple anonymous Michelin inspectors visit the restaurants several times. They rate the restaurants on five criteria: "quality of products", "mastery of flavor and cooking techniques", "the personality of the chef represented in the dining experience", "value for money", and "consistency between inspectors' visits". Inspectors have at least ten years of expertise and create a list of popular restaurants supported by media reports, reviews, and diner popularity. If they reach a consensus, Michelin awards restaurants from one to three stars based on its evaluation methodology: One star means "high-quality cooking, worth a stop", two stars signify "excellent cooking, worth a detour", and three stars denote "exceptional cuisine, worth a special journey". The stars are not permanent and restaurants are constantly being reevaluated. If the criteria are not met, the restaurant will lose its stars.
In the second edition, in 2025, no restaurants lost their Michelin stars, and five new ones were added to the list. In 2026, the Mexico guide expanded to include the states of Jalisco, Puebla, and Yucatán. Seven restaurants received stars, while El Califa de León lost its reward.

Title: List of Michelin-starred restaurants in Estonia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Michelin-starred_restaurants_in_Estonia
Summary: As of the 2026 Michelin Guide, there are 2 restaurants in Estonia with a Michelin-star rating.
The Michelin Guides have been published by the French tire company Michelin since 1900. They were designed as a guide to tell drivers about eateries they recommended to visit and to subtly sponsor their tires, by encouraging drivers to use their cars more and therefore need to replace the tires as they wore out. Over time, the stars that were given out became more valuable. Estonia's guide originally launched in 2022.
Multiple anonymous Michelin inspectors visit the restaurants several times. They rate the restaurants on five criteria: "quality of products", "mastery of flavor and cooking techniques", "the personality of the chef represented in the dining experience", "value for money", and "consistency between inspectors' visits". Inspectors have at least ten years of expertise and create a list of popular restaurants supported by media reports, reviews, and diner popularity. If they reach a consensus, Michelin awards restaurants from one to three stars based on its evaluation methodology: one star means "high-quality cooking, worth a stop", two stars signify "excellent cooking, worth a detour", and three stars denote "exceptional cuisine, worth a special journey". The stars are not permanent and restaurants are constantly re-evaluated. If the criteria are not met, the restaurant will lose its stars.

Title: List of Michelin-starred restaurants in Spain
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Michelin-starred_restaurants_in_Spain
Summary: As of the 2026 Michelin Guide, there are 306 restaurants in Spain with a Michelin star rating. 
The Michelin Guides have been published by the French tyre company Michelin since 1900. They were designed as a guide to tell drivers about eateries they recommended to visit and to subtly sponsor their tyres, by encouraging drivers to use their cars more and therefore need to replace the tyres as they wore out. Over time, the stars that were given out became more valuable.
Multiple anonymous Michelin inspectors visit the restaurants several times. They rate the restaurants on five criteria: "quality of products", "mastery of flavor and cooking techniques", "the personality of the chef represented in the dining experience", "value for money", and "consistency between inspectors' visits". Inspectors have at least ten years of expertise and create a list of popular restaurants supported by media reports, reviews, and diner popularity. If they reach a consensus, Michelin awards restaurants from one to three stars based on its evaluation methodology: one star means "high-quality cooking, worth a stop", two stars signify "excellent cooking, worth a detour", and three stars denote "exceptional cuisine, worth a special journey". The stars are not permanent and restaurants are constantly re-evaluated. If the criteria are not met, the restaurant will lose its stars.
Historically, Spain and Portugal were published as a joint-guide and ceremony.  In 2024, Portugal was spun off as a separate guide and ceremony.  In 2022, Andorra was included with Spain & Portugal and continues to be included in the Spain ceremony.