Illumination (formerly known as Illumination Entertainment) is an American animation studio founded by producer Chris Meledandri in 2007. It has an "exclusive financing and distribution partnership" with Universal Pictures (which itself is a division of Comcast through the Universal Filmed Entertainment Group, a unit of NBCUniversal) wherein Illumination produces the films as an independent contractor and Universal finances and distributes them.
The studio is best known for creating the Despicable Me, The Secret Life of Pets and Sing franchises, as well as the adaptations of Dr. Seuss' books The Lorax and How the Grinch Stole Christmas! and Nintendo video games, including The Super Mario Bros. Movie and The Super Mario Galaxy Movie. The Minions, characters from the Despicable Me series, are the mascots of the studio.
Illumination has produced 17 feature films, with an average gross of $651 million per film. Its first film, Despicable Me, was released on July 9, 2010, and its latest film, Minions & Monsters, was released on July 1, 2026; their upcoming slate of films include  Not Alone on April 16, 2027, and an untitled Illumination / Nintendo film on April 12, 2028. Two of the studio's films—Minions (2015) and The Super Mario Bros. Movie (2023)—are among the 50 highest-grossing films of all time, with the latter having the highest-grossing opening for an animated film in its initial release; eight of their films are also among the 50 highest-grossing animated films.


== History ==

Chris Meledandri left as President of 20th Century Fox Animation and Blue Sky Studios in early 2007. While at those companies he supervised or executive-produced movies including Ice Age, Robots, Ice Age: The Meltdown, and Horton Hears a Who! After leaving, he founded his then-unnamed company and a deal was announced positioning his studio as Universal's family entertainment arm, that would produce one to two films a year starting in 2010. As part of the deal, Meledandri's then-unnamed unit retains creative control and Universal Pictures exclusively distributes the films.
In March 2008, Meledandri's studio deal with Universal revealed its company name as Illumination Entertainment.
In 2011, Illumination acquired the animation department of the French animation and visual effects studio Mac Guff, which animated Despicable Me and The Lorax, and formed Illumination Mac Guff (later Illumination Studios Paris).
On August 22, 2016, NBCUniversal acquired competing studio DreamWorks Animation, which fueled speculation that Meledandri was to oversee both studios. While he had been approached by NBCUniversal to oversee both studios, he turned down the offer and later explained "I love the process of making films and working with artists. I don't think I'm particularly great at managing companies." Meledandri instead became a consultant for the latter.
In February 23, 2017, Illumination tapped former Jim Henson Company exec Peter Schube as COO to replace Natalie Fischer.
On September 23, 2022, Illumination announced its hiring of former Netflix head of adult animation Mike Moon as senior creative advisor, and a new label led by Moon known as Moonlight, which will aim to "produce animated films that push beyond the family genre." However, Moon would leave Illumination in July 2024 to join Sony Pictures Animation, leaving the status of the division currently unknown.


== Process ==
Illumination does not produce its films in-house, where it is based in Santa Monica, but rather outsources the animation production of its films to other studios. Most of its films are animated by Illumination Studios Paris, a subsidiary formed through the purchase of Mac Guff (which animated the first Despicable Me). So far, the only Illumination film not to be animated by Illumination Studios Paris or Mac Guff was Hop, which was animated by Rhythm & Hues Studios.
Not unlike Pixar, in its early days, Illumination depended on a core group of directors and writers to create its films. The directors of Despicable Me—Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud—also directed or co-directed its first two sequels, as well as The Lorax, Minions, and The Secret Life of Pets. Screenwriters Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio (who had written Horton Hears a Who! for Meledandri at Fox) wrote or co-wrote the first three Despicable Me films, Hop, The Lorax and The Secret Life of Pets, while screenwriter Brian Lynch wrote or co-wrote Hop, Minions, and The Secret Life of Pets.
Illumination's films generally have a budget between $60–80 million. Meledandri prefers to keep Illumination adhering to a low-cost model, recognizing that "strict cost controls and hit animated films are not mutually exclusive." In an industry where film expenses often exceed $100 million, Illumination's first two releases were completed with significantly lower budgets, considering Despicable Me's $69 million budget and Hop's $63 million budget. One way the company sustains a lean financial model is by employing cost-conscious animation techniques that lower the expenses and render times of its computer graphics. To date, The Super Mario Galaxy Movie is the studio's most expensive film, with a $110 million budget.


== Filmography ==

The studio's first film, Despicable Me, directed by Chris Renaud and Pierre Coffin, was released on July 9, 2010, and was a commercial success, earning $56 million on its opening weekend, and going on to ticket sales of $251 million domestically and $543 million worldwide. Illumination's second film was Hop, which used Live-action animated. Directed by Tim Hill and released on April 1, 2011, the film had a $37 million opening, ending up with $108 million domestically and $183 million worldwide. Hop was followed by an adaptation of Dr. Seuss' The Lorax (also directed by Renaud), which debuted on March 2, 2012, earning $70 million on its opening weekend, and with eventual totals of $214 million in the US market and $348 million worldwide. The studio's first sequel, Despicable M