Title: Carpathian Mountains
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carpathian_Mountains
Summary: The Carpathian Mountains or Carpathians () are a range of mountains forming an arc across Central and Southeast Europe. Roughly 1,500 km (930 mi) long, it is the third-longest European mountain range after the Urals at 2,500 km (1,600 mi) and the Scandinavian Mountains at 1,700 km (1,100 mi). The highest peaks in the Carpathians are in the Tatra Mountains, exceeding 2,600 m (8,500 ft), closely followed by those in the Southern Carpathians in Romania, exceeding 2,550 m (8,370 ft).
The range stretches from the Western Carpathians in Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Poland, clockwise through the Eastern Carpathians in Ukraine and Romania, to the Southern Carpathians in Romania and Serbia. The term Outer Carpathians is frequently used to describe the northern rim of the Western and Eastern Carpathians.
The Carpathians provide habitat for the largest European populations of brown bears, wolves, chamois, and lynxes, with the highest concentration in Romania, as well as over one-third of all European plant species. The mountains and their foothills also have many thermal and mineral waters, with Romania having one-third of the European total.
Romania is likewise home to the second-largest area of virgin forests in Europe after Russia, totaling 250,000 hectares (65%), most of them in the Carpathians, with the Southern Carpathians constituting Europe's largest unfragmented forest area. Rates of forest loss due to clearcutting, and deforestation due to illegal logging in the Carpathians are high.

Title: List of waterfalls
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_waterfalls
Summary: This list of notable waterfalls of the world is sorted by continent, then country, then province, state or territory. A waterfall is included if it is at least 15 m (50 ft) tall, or it is considered significant.
There is no standard way to measure the height or width of a waterfall. No ranking of waterfalls should be assumed because of the heights or widths provided in the list. Many numbers are estimated and measurements may be imprecise. See additional lists of waterfalls by height, flow rate and type.

Title: Western Tatras
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_Tatras
Summary: The Western Tatras (Slovak: Západné Tatry; Polish: Tatry Zachodnie) are mountains in the Tatras, part of the Carpathian Mountains, located on the Polish-Slovak border. The mountains border the High Tatras in the east, Podtatranská kotlina in the south, Choč Mountains in the west and Rów Podtatrzański in the north. The main ridge is 37 kilometers long and the mountain range contains 31 two-thousanders.
Western Tatras are the second highest mountain range both in Poland and Slovakia; its highest peak is Bystrá at 2,248 meters. Other notable mountains include Jakubiná (2,194 m), Baranec (2,184 m), Baníkov (2,178 m), Tri kopy (2,136.3 m), Plačlivé (2,125.1 m), Ostrý Roháč (2,087.5 m), Volovec (Polish: Wołowiec; 2,064 m), Kasprowy Wierch (Slovak: Kasprov vrch; 1,987 m) and Giewont (1,894 m). They are partially located in the traditional regions of Liptov, Orava and Podhale. The highest point in Poland is Starorobociański Wierch (2,176 m).

Title: Slovak Paradise National Park
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slovak_Paradise_National_Park
Summary: Slovak Paradise National Park (Slovak: Národný park Slovenský raj) is one of the nine national parks in Slovakia, situated in East Slovakia. The National Park protects the area of the Slovak Paradise mountain range, which is located in the north of the Slovenské rudohorie Mountains (Slovak Ore Mountains).
The National Park covers an area of 197.63 km2 (76.3 mi2), and the buffer zone around the park covers an area of 130.11 km2 (50.2 mi2); 327.74 km2 together. Eleven national nature reserves and eight nature reserves are situated in the park. The park offers about 300 km of hiking trails, often equipped with ladders, chains and bridges. The Slovak Paradise contains about 350 caves, but only Dobšiná Ice Cave, which is since 2000 a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is open to the public. The headquarters of the park are located in Spišská Nová Ves.

Title: Outline of Slovakia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Outline_of_Slovakia
Summary: The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Slovakia:
Slovakia – landlocked sovereign country located in Central Europe.  Slovakia has a population of five and  a half million and an area of 49,036 square kilometres (18,933 mi2). Slovakia borders the Czech Republic and Austria to the west, Poland to the north, Ukraine to the east and Hungary to the south. The capital Bratislava is its largest city.  It is a member of the European Union, NATO, OECD and Visegrád Group.