Title: List of best-selling game consoles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_game_consoles
Summary: The following table contains video game consoles that have sold at least 1 million units worldwide either through to consumers or inside retail channels. Each console includes sales from every iteration unless otherwise noted. The years correspond to when the first version of each console was released (excluding test markets).

Title: List of best-selling GameCube video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_GameCube_video_games
Summary: This is a list of video games for the GameCube video game console that have sold or shipped at least one million copies. The best-selling game on the GameCube is Super Smash Bros. Melee. First released in Japan on November 21, 2001, it went on to sell just over 7.4 million units worldwide. The second best-selling game was Mario Kart: Double Dash, selling 6.88 million units. Super Mario Sunshine is the console's third best-selling game, with 5.91 million units.
There are a total of 36 GameCube games on this list which are confirmed to have sold or shipped at least one million units. Of these, eight were developed by internal Nintendo development divisions. Other developers with the most million-selling titles include Hudson Soft and Namco with four games each, and Capcom with three games. Of the 36 games on this list, 26 were published in one or more regions by Nintendo. Other publishers with multiple million-selling games include Sega with five games, all of which being in the Sonic the Hedgehog franchise, Capcom with three games, and The Pokémon Company with two games. The best-selling franchises on GameCube include Resident Evil (4.2 million combined sales), The Legend of Zelda (5.75 million combined sales), Sonic the Hedgehog (7.1 million combined sales), and most notably Mario (26.68 million combined sales).
By June 30, 2024, 208.58 million total copies of games had been sold for the GameCube. Despite coming in at 3rd place during the 6th generation of video game consoles, it has the highest attach rate of any Nintendo console at 9.59.

Title: List of best-selling Nintendo Switch video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_Nintendo_Switch_video_games
Summary: This is a list of the best selling video games for the Nintendo Switch that have sold or shipped at least one million copies. As Nintendo shares the sales of their video games every quarter while most other publishers do not share sales figures per console, this list consists mostly of Nintendo-published titles.
Nintendo Switch, a hybrid home console and handheld device, launched worldwide on March 3, 2017. By the end of 2017, it had outsold the lifetime sales of Wii U, its home console predecessor. In September 2019, Nintendo launched the Nintendo Switch Lite, a handheld-only version of the system. By the end of 2020, total Nintendo Switch family units had outsold the lifetime sales of the Nintendo 3DS, its handheld console predecessor, by selling nearly 80 million units. As of June 30, 2026, 156.59 million Nintendo Switch consoles had been shipped, with over 1.5 billion copies of games having been shipped for the platform. The three best-selling games on the platform have been Mario Kart 8 Deluxe at 71.53 million units sold, Animal Crossing: New Horizons at 50.29 million units, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate at 38.14 million units. The three best-selling franchises on the platform have been Mario at 278.84 million units sold, Pokémon at 119.8 million units, and The Legend of Zelda at 75.47 million units. Other major selling franchises include Splatoon, which sold 25.56 million units, and Kirby, which sold 13.36 million units.

Title: List of best-selling video games in the United States by year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_video_games_in_the_United_States_by_year
Summary: This is a listing of the best-selling video games in the United States annually by units sold since 1980, with sales figures from Circana since 1994. The United States is a very competitive market for video game developers. Games from different developers around the world have entered the annual lists of top ten best-selling games in the United States. The most successful developers are mostly from the United States, Japan, Canada, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
Among the forty-three reported annual top-sellers between 1980 and 2024, thirteen were published by Activision Blizzard and another thirteen by Nintendo, four each by Atari and Take-Two Interactive, three by Electronic Arts, and two each by Sega and Acclaim Entertainment. Video game publishers Activision Blizzard and Electronic Arts managed to enter the list of ten best-selling games every single year with at least one of their games for the last fifteen years in a row. Of the twelve best-selling games released in the last fourteen years, twelve were from Call of Duty franchise and published by Activision Blizzard. Madden NFL and the Call of Duty series have been on the annual top ten best-sellers list twelve times over the last thirteen years. Call of Duty has been the best-selling video game series in the US for the past sixteen years.
The Circana lists do not encompass the industry as a whole, as some publishers, developers, and the majority of indie developers do not share data with NPD. Some video games companies also do not share physical games sales and some digital storefront sales such as Steam and Battle.net. Companies that share data with NPD include: Bandai Namco Entertainment, Capcom, Disney Interactive, Embracer Group, Konami, Krafton, Marvelous, NCSoft, Sega, Sony Interactive Entertainment, Square Enix, Take-Two Interactive, Warner Bros. Games, and Wizard of the Coast.
Ubisoft has stopped sharing data with Circana in 2025. Electronic Arts, Microsoft and Nintendo does not share digital sales data with the NPD. Blizzard Entertainment does not share Battle.net sales, and other publishers may not share their data. As a result, some games are underrepresented.

Title: List of best-selling Nintendo video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_Nintendo_video_games
Summary: This list covers the best-selling video games by Nintendo that have sold at least 20 million units. Sales figures are compiled from publicly available reports and may not account for every possible release or sales update. For this reason, the order of the games is not indicative of sales ranking but reflects the available, well-documented information. The best-selling Nintendo video game is reported to be Wii Sports, selling over 82 million units. It was released for the Wii console and was bundled with it in most regions outside of Japan.