Title: Wimbledon Championships
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wimbledon_Championships
Summary: The Wimbledon Championships, commonly called Wimbledon, is a tennis tournament organised annually in Wimbledon, London, by the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club in collaboration with the Lawn Tennis Association. It is chronologically the third of the four Grand Slam tennis events each year, held after the Australian Open and the French Open and before the US Open. It is the oldest tennis tournament in the world and is widely regarded as the most prestigious. 
Wimbledon has been held since 1877 and is played on outdoor grass courts; it is the only tennis major still played on grass, the traditional surface. It is also the only major that retains a night-time curfew for logistical reasons, with matches continuing until 23:00 BST under floodlighting since 2009.
The tournament traditionally takes place over two weeks in late June and early July, starting either on the last Monday in June or the first Monday in July and culminating with the Ladies' and Gentlemen's Singles Finals, scheduled for the Saturday and Sunday at the end of the second week. Five major events are held each year, with additional junior and invitational competitions also taking place. The tournament was not held during World War II, and was cancelled in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Line judges were replaced by electronic calling systems in 2025.
Wimbledon traditions include a strict all-white dress code for competitors, and royal patronage. Strawberries and cream are traditionally consumed at the tournament, in latter years accompanied by champagne. Unlike other tournaments, advertising is minimal and low-key from official suppliers such as Slazenger and Rolex. The relationship with Slazenger is the world's longest-running sporting sponsorship, providing balls for the tournament since 1902.

Title: The Shining (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Shining_(film)
Summary: The Shining is a 1980 psychological horror film produced and directed by Stanley Kubrick and co-written with novelist Diane Johnson. It is based on Stephen King's 1977 novel and stars Jack Nicholson, Shelley Duvall, Danny Lloyd and Scatman Crothers. The film presents the descent into insanity of a recovering alcoholic and aspiring novelist who takes a job as winter caretaker for a mountain resort hotel with his wife and clairvoyant son.
Production took place almost exclusively in England at EMI Elstree Studios, with sets based on real locations. Kubrick often worked with a small crew, which allowed him to do many takes, sometimes to the exhaustion of the actors and staff. The then-new Steadicam mount was used to shoot several scenes, giving the film an innovative and immersive look and feel.
The film was released in the United States on May 23, 1980, by Warner Bros., and in the United Kingdom on October 2 by Columbia-EMI-Warner Distributors. There were several versions for theatrical releases, each of which was cut shorter than the preceding cut; about 27 minutes was cut in total. Reactions to the film at the time of its release were mixed; King criticized the film due to its deviations from the novel, which led King to produce in 1997 a three-part miniseries adaptation as more faithful to his novel. The film received two controversial nominations at the 1st Golden Raspberry Awards in 1981—Worst Director and Worst Actress—the latter of which was later rescinded in 2022 due to Kubrick's alleged treatment of Duvall on set.
The Shining has since been critically reappraised and is often cited as one of the greatest horror films ever made. In 2018, it was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant." A sequel titled Doctor Sleep, based on King's 2013 novel of the same name, was adapted to film and released in 2019.

Title: World number 1 ranked male tennis players
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_number_1_ranked_male_tennis_players
Summary: World number 1 ranked male tennis players is a year-by-year listing of the male tennis players who were ranked as world No. 1 by various contemporary and modern sources. The annual source rankings from which the No. 1 players are drawn are cited for each player's name, with a summary of the most important tennis events of each year also included. If world rankings are not available, recent rankings by tennis writers for historical years are accessed, with the dates of the recent rankings identified. In the period 1948–1953, when contemporary professional world rankings were not created, the U.S. professional rankings are cited.

Title: List of events at the O2 Arena
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_events_at_the_O2_Arena
Summary: The O2 Arena, Greenwich, London, has hosted some of the best known performers, comedy acts and sports teams from around the world. Since 2010, the O2 has hosted over 2000 events from various sporting events to world famous artists. Some of the events that have been held there are listed below.

Title: Diede de Groot
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diede_de_Groot
Summary: Diede de Groot (pronounced [ˈdidə də ˈɣroːt] ; born 19 December 1996) is a Dutch professional wheelchair tennis player who was world No. 1 in both singles and doubles.
De Groot is a 43–time major champion, having won a record 24 titles in singles and 19 in doubles. De Groot had a three-year, 145-match, winning streak in singles, from a defeat in February 2021 to Yui Kamiji until a defeat in May 2024 to Li Xiaohui. During this streak she achieved the first calendar-year Super Slam in tennis history by winning all four major titles, the Paralympic gold medal, and the Wheelchair Tennis Masters title in women's singles in 2021. The following year, she became the first player in any discipline of tennis to defend the Grand Slam and win all four majors in two consecutive years, and did so yet again in 2023. At the 2026 French Open, she became the first player ever to achieve the sextuple career Grand Slam.
In doubles, de Groot completed the Grand Slam in 2019, partnering Aniek van Koot. Apart from her major titles, de Groot has won multiple Wheelchair Tennis Masters titles between 2016 and 2018 in both singles and doubles, as well as gold medals in both disciplines at the 2020 Tokyo Paralympics. She was part of the Dutch team that won the World Team Cup on eight occasions between 2011 and 2019.