Title: History of Luxembourg
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Luxembourg
Summary: The history of Luxembourg consists of the history of the country of Luxembourg and its geographical area.
Although its recorded history can be traced back to Roman times, the history of Luxembourg proper is considered to begin in 963. Over the following five centuries, the powerful House of Luxembourg emerged, but its extinction put an end to the country's independence. After a brief period of Burgundian rule, the country passed to the Habsburgs in 1477.
After the Eighty Years' War, Luxembourg became a part of the Southern Netherlands, which passed to the Austrian line of the Habsburg dynasty in 1713. After occupation by Revolutionary France, the 1815 Vienna Congress transformed Luxembourg into a Grand Duchy in personal union with the Netherlands. The treaty also resulted in the second partitioning of Luxembourg, the first being in 1658 and a third in 1839. Although these treaties greatly reduced Luxembourg's territory, the latter established its formal independence, which was confirmed after the Luxembourg Crisis of 1867.
In the following decades, Luxembourg fell further into Germany's sphere of influence, particularly after the creation of a separate ruling house in 1890. It was occupied by Germany from 1914 until 1918 and again from 1940 until 1944. Since the end of the Second World War, Luxembourg has become one of the world's richest countries, buoyed by political stability and European integration.

Title: 1690s
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1690s
Summary: The 1690s decade ran from January 1, 1690, to December 31, 1699.

Title: House of Luxembourg-Nassau
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/House_of_Luxembourg-Nassau
Summary: The House of Luxembourg-Nassau is the current royal house of Luxembourg. It was founded in 1921. It descends from the House of Nassau-Weilburg
(cognatically since 2020, formerly enatically from 1964 to 2000, and agnatically until 1964) and from the House of Bourbon-Parma (agnatically since 1964), and consists of the extended family of the reigning Grand Duke. There have been three monarchs from the House of Luxembourg-Nassau: Jean, Henri, and Guillaume V.

Title: List of monarchs of Luxembourg
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_monarchs_of_Luxembourg
Summary: The territory of Luxembourg has been ruled successively by counts, dukes and grand dukes. It was part of the medieval Kingdom of Germany, and later the Holy Roman Empire until it became a sovereign state in 1815.

Title: History of Luxembourg (1984—present)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Luxembourg_(1984%E2%80%94present)
Summary: The recent history of Luxembourg (1984—present) began with the 1984 election, which saw Jacques Santer take office as prime minister.
Major economic and social changes took place during this time. The steel industry, still significant at the beginning of the period, continued its decline from the 1970s and steadily lost importance in the wider economy.
At the same time, the period saw the rapid rise of the banking and financial sector, and of services in general, taking a dominant role in place of steel. This led to social changes, such as the massively increased role of cross-border commuters in the economy, and a substantial rise in the number of foreign residents, attracted by opportunities in its finance sector and by the small country's many international institutions.
Politically, the period saw great stability in governments. From 1984 to 2023, there were only three prime ministers (Jacques Santer, Jean-Claude Juncker, and  Xavier Bettel), each in office for at least 10 years. The Christian Social People's Party (CSV) broadly speaking continued its post-World War II dominance of the country's political scene, as the major coalition partner in all governments of the 1984–present period, with the notable exception of the 2013-2023 Bettel governments, when the CSV was in opposition.
Luxembourg continued to become ever more involved in European integration during the period. Almost symbolically of this, two former prime ministers became  presidents of the European Commission. In terms of wages and industrial relations, the "Luxembourg model" and the tradition of consensus, illustrated by the Tripartite Committee between government, employers and trade unions, remained in effect. Despite the CSV's general dominance, the period saw wide-ranging social reforms in areas such as same-sex marriage, euthanasia, abortion, and church-state relations.