Title: Parc des Princes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parc_des_Princes
Summary: Le Parc des Princes (French pronunciation: [paʁk de pʁɛ̃s], lit. 'the Park of Princes') is an all-seater football stadium in Paris, France. It is located in the southwest of the French capital, within the 16th arrondissement, directly opposite the Stade Jean-Bouin. The stadium, with a seating capacity of 47,929 spectators, has been the home of French football club Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) since July 1974. The pitch is surrounded by four covered all-seater stands: Tribune Auteuil, Tribune Paris, Tribune Borelli and Tribune Boulogne.
The stadium's surroundings were once a forest that served as a private recreation area and hunting ground for the king's sons (the princes) for centuries, hence the name Parc des Princes. In 1852, the area was transferred to the Council of Paris. The first Parc was built there in 1897 as a velodrome, hosting prestigious cycling competitions including the Tour de France. Expanded in 1932, the second Parc adopted a more modern design to focus on other sports such as football, rugby union and rugby league.
Instigated by French president Charles de Gaulle and Minister of Sports Maurice Herzog, a project to rebuild the stadium to contemporary standards began on 8 July 1967, under the direction of Roger Taillibert and Siavash Teimouri. Georges Pompidou, who succeeded de Gaulle in 1969, officially inaugurated the stadium on 4 June 1972. The third Parc was one of the most advanced stadiums in Europe at the time, impressing with its futuristic lines, suspended concrete stands and formidable acoustics.
Before the opening of the Stade de France in 1998, the Parc was the home stadium of the France national football team and the France national rugby union team. PSG's record attendance at the Parc dates back to their 2–0 victory over Waterschei in 1983 in the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in front of 49,575 spectators. The French football team's record attendance at the stadium was set in 1993, when 48,402 spectators watched their 2–1 FIFA World Cup qualification defeat by Bulgaria. However, the 50,370 spectators during French rugby union team's 31–12 victory over Wales in the 1989 Five Nations Championship holds the all-time attendance record at the Parc.

Title: Parc Astérix
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parc_Ast%C3%A9rix
Summary: Parc Astérix ([paʁk asteʁiks] ; lit. 'Asterix Park') is a theme park in northern France based on the comic book series Asterix by Albert Uderzo and René Goscinny. In 2023, the park welcomed over 2.8 million visitors, making it the second most visited entertainment resort nationally behind Disneyland Paris and the eighth most visited in Europe.
It is especially renowned in France for its large variety of roller coasters, which exceeds the amount of most other parks in mainland France. Park Astérix has begun incorporating rides and themes from historic cultures like the Gauls, the Romans, Ancient Greece and recently Ancient Egypt, but always in the visual style of the related comic books, and most usually reusing characters, scenes and sounds from the Asterix media.
The park is located in the commune of Plailly, in the department of Oise, approximately 35 km (22 mi) northeast of Paris, 32 km (20 mi) from Disneyland Paris and 20 km (12 mi) from the historic Château de Chantilly. Opened in 1989, it is operated by Compagnie des Alpes and located right by the A1 autoroute (Paris ↔ Lille ↔ Brussels), having its own highway exit and interchange.

Title: Cité des Sciences et de l'Industrie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cit%C3%A9_des_Sciences_et_de_l%27Industrie
Summary: The Cité des Sciences et de l'Industrie (French pronunciation: [site de sjɑ̃s e də lɛ̃dystʁi], "City of Science and Industry", abbreviated la CSI) or simply CSI is a large science museum in Europe. Located in the Parc de la Villette in Paris, France, it is one of the three dozen French Cultural Centers of Science, Technology and Industry (CCSTI), promoting science and science culture.
About five million people visit the Cité each year. Attractions include a planetarium, a submarine (the Argonaute), an aquarium, an IMAX theatre (La Géode) and special areas for children and teenagers. The CSI is classified as a public establishment of an industrial and commercial character, an establishment specialising in the fostering of scientific and technical culture. Created on the initiative of President Giscard d'Estaing, the goal of the Cité is to spread scientific and technical knowledge among the public, particularly for youth, and to promote public interest in science, research and industry.
The most notable features of the "bioclimatic façade" facing the park are Les Serres – three greenhouse spaces each 32 metres high, 32 metres wide and 8 metres deep. The facades of Les Serres were the first structural glass walls to be constructed without framing or supporting fins. Between 30 May, and 1 June 2008, the museum hosted the 3rd International Salon for Peace Initiatives.
In 2009, the Cité des Sciences and the Palais de la Découverte were brought together in a common establishment, named Universcience, with EPIC status.

Title: Parc de Belleville
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parc_de_Belleville
Summary: The Parc de Belleville, one of the parks and gardens of the 20th arrondissement of Paris, is situated between the Parc des Buttes Chaumont and the Père Lachaise Cemetery.

Title: Parc de Bercy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parc_de_Bercy
Summary: The Parc de Bercy (French pronunciation: [paʁk də bɛʁsi]; English: Park of Bercy) is a public park located along the Rive Droite in the 12th arrondissement of Paris. Development started in 1994 on the site of a former wine depot (the wine warehouses of Bercy, which in the early 20th century was the largest wine market in the world) before an official opening three years later by Mayor Jean Tiberi. Sponsored by President François Mitterrand, the project covered 14 hectares (34.6 acres).
Composed of three different gardens on different themes connected by foot bridges, the Parc de Bercy is Paris's tenth largest park. It is accessible by Bercy and Cour Saint-Émilion Métro stations, as well as by a foot bridge to the Mitterrand site of the Bibliothèque nationale de France (BnF) on the other side of the Seine. The AccorHotels Arena, colloquially known as Bercy in Paris, is located on the park's northern edge.