Wardell Stephen Curry II ( STEF-ən; born March 14, 1988), also known as Steph Curry ( STEF), is an American professional basketball player for the Golden State Warriors of the National Basketball Association (NBA), where he plays as a point guard. Nicknamed "Chef Curry", he is widely regarded as the greatest shooter in basketball history and one of the greatest players of all time. He is credited with revolutionizing the game by popularizing the three-point shot across all levels of basketball.
Curry is a four-time NBA champion, a two-time NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP), an NBA Finals MVP, and a two-time NBA All-Star Game MVP. He is also a two-time NBA scoring champion, a 12-time NBA All-Star, and an 11-time All-NBA Team selection (including four on the First Team). Internationally, he has won two gold medals at the FIBA World Cup and a gold medal at the 2024 Summer Olympics as part of the U.S. national team.
Curry played collegiately for the Davidson Wildcats, where he was named Conference Player of the Year twice. He set the NCAA single-season record for three-pointers made (162) as a sophomore and led the NCAA Division I in scoring during his junior year. Curry was selected by the Warriors as the seventh overall pick in the 2009 NBA draft.
In 2014–15, Curry won his first league MVP award and led the Warriors to their first championship since 1975. The following season, he became the first player to be unanimously voted MVP and to lead the league in scoring while shooting above 50–40–90. That same year, the Warriors broke the record for most wins in a regular season (73) en route to the 2016 NBA Finals, where they lost a 3–1 series lead to the Cleveland Cavaliers. Curry then helped the Warriors win back-to-back titles in 2017 and 2018, and reach the 2019 NBA Finals, where they fell to the Toronto Raptors in six games. In 2021, Curry led the league in scoring for a second time. The following season Curry won his fourth championship and first Finals MVP award in 2022, leading the Warriors past the Boston Celtics in six games. That same season, he became the NBA's all-time leader in three-pointers made, surpassing Ray Allen.
Curry has the highest career free-throw percentage in NBA history (.912) and has led the league in three-pointers made a record eight times. In 2016, he broke his own record for three-pointers made in a regular season, with 402, and made at least one three-pointer in an NBA-record 268 consecutive games from 2018 to 2023.
Curry was named one of Time's 100 most influential people in the world in 2016 and has been listed by Forbes as one of the world's ten highest-paid athletes nine times. He has also been listed as the highest paid NBA player for a record nine consecutive seasons and has led the NBA in worldwide jersey sales six times.


== Early life, family and education ==
Curry was born on March 14, 1988, at Summa Health Akron Campus in downtown Akron, Ohio. His father, Wardell Stephen "Dell" Curry Sr. was a professional basketball player, and his mother, Sonya Alicia Curry (née Adams), is an educator and author. He grew up in Charlotte, North Carolina, where his father spent most of his NBA career with the Charlotte Hornets.
He played with his younger brother Seth on their backyard basketball court in Charlotte. The family briefly moved to Toronto, Canada, where Dell finished out his career as a member of the Toronto Raptors. During this time, Curry played for the Queensway Christian College boys' basketball team, leading them to an undefeated season. He was also a member of Toronto 5–0, a club team that plays across Ontario, pitting him against fellow future NBA players Cory Joseph and Kelly Olynyk. Curry led the team to a 33–4 record, en route to winning the provincial championship.
After Dell's retirement, the family moved back to Charlotte and Curry enrolled at Charlotte Christian School, where he was named all-conference and all-state, and led his team to three conference titles and three state playoff appearances. Because of his father's storied career at Virginia Tech, Curry wanted to play college basketball for the Hokies, but was only offered a walk-on spot due in part to his slender 160-pound frame. He ultimately chose to attend Davidson College, which had aggressively recruited him from the tenth grade.


== College career ==


=== Freshman season ===
Before Curry even played in his first game for the Wildcats, head coach Bob McKillop praised him at a Davidson alumni event, saying: "Wait 'til you see Steph Curry. He is something special." In his second collegiate game, he recorded a season-high 32 points and nine rebounds against Michigan. He had 30 points and a season-high 11 rebounds against Chattanooga on December 18, 2006, for his first career double-double. On February 6, 2007, also against Chattanooga, Curry broke the school's 500-point freshman record. He went on to finish with 730 points. He also broke Davidson's single-season record for three-pointers held by Brendan Winters (2004–05). He led the Southern Conference in scoring at 21.5 points per game, ranking him ninth nationally and second nationally among freshmen behind only Kevin Durant of Texas.
The Wildcats finished with a 29–5 record and a Southern Conference regular-season title. On March 2, in the Southern Conference tournament semi-finals against Furman, Curry made his 113th three-point field goal of the year, breaking Keydren Clark's NCAA freshman season record for three-pointers. On March 15, he scored a game-high 30 points in a first-round NCAA tournament loss to Maryland.
At the end of his freshman season, Curry was named Southern Conference Freshman of the Year, SoCon Tournament MVP, and selected to the SoCon All-tournament team, All-freshman team, and All-SoCon First Team. He was also an honorable mention in Sports Illustrated's All-Mid-Major.


=== Sophomore season ===

In his sophomore season in 2007–08, Curry helped the Wildcats to a 26–6 regular-season record, a 20–0 conferen