Title: Christy Hui
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christy_Hui
Summary: Christy Hui (許麗緹) is a Chinese film producer and director, who is best known as the creator of Xiaolin Showdown and its spin-off Xiaolin Chronicles. Hui also helped in launching the first pan-Asian cable satellite channel, AXN.

Title: Bringrr
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bringrr
Summary: Bringrr is a startup company that develops and manufactures electronic tracking systems for commonly used items, including smartphones. The company was founded in 2009 by James Logan. The company's eponymous product is a device that alerts users if they do not have their smartphone when they start their car. Asheem Aggarwal is Bringrr's CEO.

Title: CHIP (computer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CHIP_(computer)
Summary: CHIP (stylized as C.H.I.P.) was a single-board computer crowdfunded and produced by the now-defunct Next Thing Co. (NTC). Advertised as "the world's first $9 computer," it was released in 2015 as open-source hardware running a customized, Debian-based Linux operating system.
The CHIP was designed for hobbyists and embedded hardware projects, including a 1 GHz ARMv7 processor, 512MB of RAM, onboard storage, and integrated Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. The product line later expanded to include the CHIP Pro and peripherals like the Pocket CHIP.

Title: Everette Taylor
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everette_Taylor
Summary: Everette Taylor (born June 23, 1989) is an American business executive. He has been the CEO of Kickstarter since September 2022, and was previously CMO of Artsy, and founder of ET Enterprises which includes the marketing firm MiliSense, social media software company PopSocial, ArtX, and GrowthHackers. Taylor was named one of Forbes' "30 Under 30" and has been widely recognized for his work at the intersection of technology, marketing, and culture.

Title: Ridge (company)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ridge_(company)
Summary: Ridge (previously The Ridge) is a wallet and accessories manufacturer. Ridge was founded in 2013 by father and son Daniel and Paul Kane. The company initially relied on crowdfunding campaigns to finance the manufacturing of its products. The company's wallet patent has been the subject of litigation, which began in 2020.
Ridge was established in 2013 by Daniel and Paul Kane, who launched a Kickstarter campaign for Ridge Wallet as their flagship product. The campaign gained significant popularity and met its initial funding goal. The company has since expanded its product line to include rings, backpacks, and other accessories, along with new versions of its original wallet.