Title: Ballon d'Or
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ballon_d%27Or
Summary: The Ballon d'Or (French pronunciation: [balɔ̃ dɔʁ] ; lit. 'Golden Ball') is an annual association football award presented by French magazine France Football since 1956 to honour the player judged to have performed the best over the previous season.
Conceived by sports writers Gabriel Hanot and Jacques Ferran, the Ballon d'Or was based exclusively on voting by football journalists up until 2006. Originally, it was awarded only to players from Europe and was also known as the European Footballer of the Year award. In 1995, the Ballon d'Or was expanded to include all players of any origin active at European clubs. The award became a global prize in 2007 with all professional footballers being eligible; additionally, coaches and captains of national teams were also given the right to vote, before reverting to just journalists in 2016.
Between 2010 and 2015, in an agreement with FIFA, the award was merged with the FIFA World Player of the Year and rebranded as the FIFA Ballon d'Or. That partnership ended in 2016, and the award reverted to the Ballon d'Or, while FIFA also reinstated its own separate annual award, The Best FIFA Men's Player. In 2022, France Football modified the rules for the Ballon d'Or. The timing was changed so that the award is based on a football season rather than a calendar year, and an international jury of specialized journalists—one representative per country from the top 100 in the latest FIFA Men's World Ranking—was introduced to determine the winner. UEFA has co-organized the Ballon d'Or gala since 2024, with France Football retaining the voting system and the Ballon d'Or name.
Lionel Messi has won the Ballon d'Or a record eight times, followed by Cristiano Ronaldo with five. Johan Cruyff, Michel Platini and Marco van Basten have each won the award three times, while Alfredo Di Stéfano, Franz Beckenbauer, Kevin Keegan, Karl-Heinz Rummenigge and Ronaldo have each won it twice. Ousmane Dembélé is the current holder of the award, having won its 69th edition in 2025.

Title: List of world records in athletics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_world_records_in_athletics
Summary: World records in athletics are ratified by World Athletics. Athletics records comprise the best performances in the sports of track and field, road running and racewalking.
Records are kept for all events contested at the Olympic Games and some others. Unofficial records for some other events are kept by track and field statisticians. The only non-metric track distance for which official records are kept is the mile run.

Title: FIFA World Cup records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFA_World_Cup_records_and_statistics
Summary: As of the 2026 edition, 84 national teams have competed at the finals of the men's FIFA World Cup. Brazil is the only team to have appeared in all 23 tournaments to date, with Germany having participated in 21, Argentina in 19, and Italy and Mexico both in 18. Eight nations have won the tournament. The inaugural winners in 1930 were Uruguay; the current champions are Spain. The most successful nation is Brazil, which has won the cup on five occasions. Five teams have appeared in FIFA World Cup finals without winning, while twelve more have appeared in the semi-finals.

Title: Nigeria women's national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nigeria_women%27s_national_football_team
Summary: The Nigeria women's national football team, nicknamed the Super Falcons, represents Nigeria in international women's football and is controlled by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). The team is Africa's most successful international women's football team, having won a record ten Women's Africa Cup of Nations titles. The most recent came at the 2024 Women's Africa Cup of Nations, which was postponed by twelve months because of the 2024 Summer Olympics and played in Morocco from 5 to 26 July 2025; Nigeria recovered from a two-goal deficit to beat the hosts 3–2 in the final at the Olympic Stadium in Rabat on 26 July 2025. The team is also the only women's national team from the Confederation of African Football to have reached the quarterfinals in both the FIFA Women's World Cup and the Summer Olympics.
They qualified for every edition of the FIFA Women's World Cup until missing out on qualification for the 2027 edition, with their best performance at the 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup where they reached the quarterfinals.
Since FIFA rankings were established in 2003, the team has been ranked No. 1 in Africa and have never relinquished that position. Their 23rd position in the FIFA world ranking achieved on three occasions remains the highest they have ever attained.

Title: List of Formula One driver records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Formula_One_driver_records
Summary: The World Championship of Drivers has been held since 1950. Driver records listed here include all rounds which formed part of the World Championship since 1950: this includes the Indianapolis 500 from 1950–1960 (although it was not run to Formula One rules), and the 1952 and 1953 World Championship Grands Prix (which were run to Formula Two rules). Formula One races that were not qualification rounds for the World Championship are not included, and sprints are only included when specified.