Title: James Cameron
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Cameron
Summary: James Francis Cameron (born August 16, 1954) is a Canadian and New Zealand filmmaker and explorer. His films combine cutting-edge film technology with classical filmmaking techniques and have grossed over $10 billion worldwide, making him the second highest-grossing film director of all time. A major figure in the post-New Hollywood era, Cameron has received numerous accolades including three Academy Awards, two Primetime Emmy Awards, and four Golden Globe Awards, as well as nominations for six British Academy Film Awards.
Born and raised in Ontario, Cameron moved to California aged 17 and enrolled at Fullerton Community College. Beginning his career with the short film Xenogenesis (1978), he first gained recognition for writing and directing the science fiction action film The Terminator (1984). He had further success with Aliens (1986), The Abyss (1989), Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991), and True Lies (1994), as well as the Avatar franchise (2009, 2022–present). He directed, wrote, co-produced, and co-edited the historical romance epic Titanic (1997), winning Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Film Editing.
Three of Cameron's films—Avatar (2009), Avatar: The Way of Water (2022) and Titanic—are amongst the top five highest-grossing films of all time. He directed the first film to gross over $1 billion, the first two films to gross over $2 billion each, is the only director to have had three films gross over $2 billion each, and is the first director to have four consecutive feature films gross over $1 billion each. The Terminator, Terminator 2: Judgment Day, and Titanic have been selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress. Cameron also co-founded the production companies Lightstorm Entertainment, Digital Domain, and Earthship Productions. In 2010, Time named Cameron one of the 100 most influential people in the world.
In addition to filmmaking, he is a National Geographic explorer-in-residence and has produced many documentaries on deep-ocean exploration, including Ghosts of the Abyss (2003) and Aliens of the Deep (2005). Cameron has also contributed to underwater filming and remote vehicle technologies, and helped create the new digital 3D Fusion Camera System. In 2012, he became the first person to complete a solo descent to the bottom of the Mariana Trench, the deepest part of Earth's ocean, in the Deepsea Challenger submersible. He is also an environmentalist and runs several sustainability businesses.

Title: James Cameron's Dark Angel
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Cameron%27s_Dark_Angel
Summary: James Cameron's Dark Angel is a beat 'em up video game based on the television series Dark Angel. It was developed by Radical Entertainment and co-published by Fox Interactive and Vivendi Universal Games through their subsidiary Sierra Entertainment. It was announced at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in May 2002, shortly after the TV series was canceled. Jessica Alba and Michael Weatherly reprised their roles from the series, voicing Max Guevara and Logan Cale respectively.
The game follows an original storyline, with players controlling Max Guevara as she fights the I Corporation and attempts to find her twin sister. It was released on PlayStation 2 and Xbox in November 2002. The game was met with generally unfavorable reviews. It was frequently criticized for its unoriginality, repetition and certain gameplay issues, though some praised its graphics, storyline and voice acting.

Title: Lightstorm Entertainment
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightstorm_Entertainment
Summary: Lightstorm Entertainment, Inc. is an American independent film and television production company founded by filmmaker James Cameron and producer Lawrence Kasanoff in 1990. Cameron previously founded Tech Noir Productions with Gale Anne Hurd, which only made The Abyss in 1989. The company's films include the sci-fi film Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991), the action-comedy film True Lies (1994), the romantic film Titanic (1997), the epic science fiction film series Avatar, and the sci-fi film Alita: Battle Angel (2019); Cameron has employed other filmmakers to produce and direct films under the Lightstorm banner. Based in Santa Monica, California, the company established a first look deal with 20th Century Fox (currently known as 20th Century Studios) in 1995, who has since distributed a majority of the company's films.
In 1993, Cameron would meet his future Titanic and Avatar co-producer Jon Landau during the production of True Lies, and would persuade Landau to join the company. The company's logo depicts a bowman using a lightning bolt as an arrow.
In January 2015, Lightstorm Entertainment had brought the motion-capture technology assets of Atlanta-based Giant Studios who had handled motion-capture services on Lightstorm's successful film Avatar. This allowed Lightstorm Entertainment its own motion-capture technology production service and had allowed Lightstorm to develop motion-capture production technology in-house for its future films whilst Giant's research and development team continued to develop the motion-capture technology under Lightstorm.
In December 2024, Lightstorm Entertainment announced its entry into the virtual reality business with the establishment of its virtual reality technology 3D entertainment division called Lightstorm Vision to expand Lightstorm's technology production tools in entertainment experiences and had collaborated with multinational technology company Meta Platforms via a multi-year collaboration for Lightstorm's 3D productions. Lightstorm Vision will use Meta Quest as its exclusive MR hardware platform service for Lightstorm's films including Avatar: Fire and Ash (2025) and Billie Eilish – Hit Me Hard and Soft: The Tour (Live in 3D) (2026).
In June 2026, Lightstorm Entertainment's 3D/VR technology entertainment division Lightstorm Vision had acquired German 3D camera & rig production manager and technology developer Stereotec following the massive successful of the live 3D capture production for "Billie Eilish – Hit Me Hard and Soft: The Tour (Live in 3D)", with Stereotec became a subsidiary of Lightstorm Vision and would help expand Lightstorm Vision's capabilities at the capture stage of the 3D production process for its future films.

Title: Avatar: The Game
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar:_The_Game
Summary: Avatar: The Game is a 2009 third-person shooter action-adventure game based on the 2009 film Avatar. The game was developed by Ubisoft Montreal (with Gameloft Barcelona also for the mobile version) and published by Ubisoft. It was released on the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Microsoft Windows, Wii, and Nintendo DS on December 1, 2009, with a PlayStation Portable version later released on December 7. It uses the same technology as the film to be displayed in stereoscopic 3D. As of May 19, 2010, the game has sold nearly 2.7 million copies.
The game, which acts as a non-canon prequel to the film, features Sigourney Weaver, Stephen Lang, Michelle Rodriguez, and Giovanni Ribisi, who reprise their roles from the film. The casting and voice production for Avatar: The Game was handled by Blindlight.
The online services for the game were shut down on August 8, 2014.

Title: James Cameron's unrealized projects
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Cameron%27s_unrealized_projects
Summary: During his long career, Canadian film director James Cameron has worked on a number of projects which never progressed beyond the pre-production stage under his direction. Some of these projects fell into development hell or are officially cancelled.