Title: Netflix, Inc.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netflix,_Inc.
Summary: Netflix, Inc. is an American media company founded on August 29, 1997, by Reed Hastings and Marc Randolph in Scotts Valley, California, and currently based in Los Gatos, California, with production offices and stages at the Los Angeles–based Hollywood studios (formerly old Warner Brothers studios) and the Albuquerque Studios (formerly ABQ studios). It owns and operates an eponymous over-the-top subscription video on-demand service, which showcases acquired and original programming as well as third-party content licensed from other production companies and distributors. Netflix is also the first streaming media company to be a member of the Motion Picture Association.
Netflix initially both sold and rented DVDs by mail, but the sales were eliminated within a year to focus on the DVD rental business. In 2007, Netflix introduced streaming media and video on demand. The company expanded to Canada in 2010, followed by Latin America and the Caribbean. In 2011, the service began to acquire and produce original content, beginning with the crime drama Lilyhammer.
The company has been listed on Nasdaq since 2002 and is ranked 117th on the Fortune 500 and 219th on the Forbes Global 2000. It is the largest entertainment/media company by market capitalization as of 2026 estimated at $450 billion. In 2021, Netflix was ranked as the eighth-most trusted brand globally by Morning Consult. During the 2010s, Netflix was the top-performing stock in the S&P 500 stock market index, with a total return of 3,693%.
The company has two CEOs, Greg Peters and Ted Sarandos, who are split between Los Gatos and Los Angeles, respectively. It also operates international offices in Asia, Europe and Latin America including in Canada, France, Brazil, the Netherlands, India, Italy, Japan, Poland, South Korea, and the United Kingdom. The company has production hubs in Los Angeles, Albuquerque, London, Madrid, Vancouver and Toronto.

Title: List of most-watched Netflix original programming
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most-watched_Netflix_original_programming
Summary: This is a list of most-watched Netflix original programming of all time in number of views, that equate to hours viewed per length of particular content, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand. These statistics are released by Netflix based on its proprietary engagement metrics. As the viewership is measured only during the first 91 days after release, increased from 28 days since 2023, it differs from the numbers combined in the What We Watched reports.

Title: Missing You (2025 TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Missing_You_(2025_TV_series)
Summary: Missing You is a thriller television miniseries made for streaming service Netflix, adapted from the novel of the same name by Harlan Coben, who acts as executive producer on the series. It was released on 1 January 2025.

Title: Senna (miniseries)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Senna_(miniseries)
Summary: Senna is a Brazilian biographical drama television miniseries created by Vicente Amorim and directed by Amorim and Júlia Rezende, based on the life of racing driver Ayrton Senna, and starring Gabriel Leone as Senna. The series was produced by Brazilian studio Gullane Entretenimento with funding from American studio Netflix, in collaboration with the Senna family. Budgeted at $170 million, it is the most expensive Brazilian television series in history.
The series was released on Netflix on 29 November 2024. It received mixed reviews from critics, who praised Leone's performance, the production design, and the racing scenes, but criticised the character development, historical inaccuracies and perceived bias. It received a nomination for Best Foreign Language Series at the 30th Critics' Choice Awards.

Title: List of Netflix original films (since 2026)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Netflix_original_films_(since_2026)
Summary: Netflix is an American global on-demand Internet streaming media provider, that has distributed a number of original programs, including original series, specials, miniseries, documentaries and films. Netflix's original films also include content that was first screened on cinematic release in other countries or given exclusive broadcast in other territories, and is then described as Netflix original content.