Title: University of Pennsylvania
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Pennsylvania
Summary: The University of Pennsylvania (Penn or UPenn) is a private Ivy League research university in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. Chartered in 1755 by its first president Benjamin Franklin, who advocated for an educational institution that trained leaders in academia, commerce, and public service, it is one of nine colonial colleges in the country.
The university has 4 undergraduate schools and 12 graduate and professional schools. Schools enrolling undergraduates include the College of Arts and Sciences, the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the Wharton School, and the School of Nursing. Among its graduate schools are its law school, whose first professor, James Wilson, helped write the U.S. Constitution, and its medical school, the first in North America.
In fiscal year 2024, Penn reported $2.172 billion in research expenditures, ranking second among U.S. universities in the National Science Foundation's Higher Education Research and Development (HERD) survey. As of June 30, 2025, Penn's endowment was $24.808 billion. The main campus is in the University City neighborhood of West Philadelphia, centered around College Hall. Campus landmarks include Houston Hall, described as the first student union building in the United States, and Franklin Field, which has hosted college football since 1895 and was expanded into a two-tier stadium in 1922. The university's athletics program, the Penn Quakers, fields varsity teams in 33 sports as a member of NCAA Division I's Ivy League conference.
Penn alumni, trustees, and faculty include 8 signers of the Declaration of Independence, 7 signers of the U.S. Constitution, 24 members of the Continental Congress, 3 presidents of the United States, 38 Nobel laureates, 9 foreign heads of state, 3 United States Supreme Court justices, at least 4 Supreme Court justices of foreign nations, 32 U.S. senators, 163 members of the U.S. House of Representatives, 19 U.S. Cabinet secretaries, 46 governors, 28 state supreme court justices, 36 living undergraduate billionaires, the only person to ever reach trillionaire status, 6 recipients of the Medal of Honor, and more than 200 Olympic athletes, 43 of whom earned 81 medals (26 of them gold).

Title: State University of New York
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_University_of_New_York
Summary: The State University of New York (SUNY  SOO-nee) is a system of public colleges and universities in the State of New York. Led by chancellor John B. King, the SUNY system has 87,956 employees, including 29,427 faculty members, and some 7,660 degree and certificate programs overall and a $13.37 billion budget.
With 25,000 acres of land, SUNY's largest campus is SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry, which neighbors the State University of New York Upstate Medical University—the largest employer in the SUNY system with over 10,959 employees.  Its flagship universities are Stony Brook University on Long Island in southeastern New York and University at Buffalo in the west. Its research university centers also include Binghamton University and the University at Albany.
The State University of New York was established in 1948 by Governor Thomas E. Dewey, through legislative implementation of recommendations made by the Temporary Commission on the Need for a State University (1946–1948). The commission was chaired by Owen D. Young, who was at the time Chairman of General Electric. The system was greatly expanded during the administration of Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller, who took a personal interest in design and construction of new SUNY facilities across the state.  Since 1978, its primary administrative offices have been located at SUNY Plaza in Albany with satellite offices in Manhattan and Washington, D.C.
Apart from units of the institutionally separate City University of New York (CUNY), SUNY comprises all New York state-supported institutions of higher education. In addition, SUNY has four contracted colleges/school (New York State College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at Cornell University, New York State College of Veterinary Medicine at Cornell University, New York State College of Human Ecology at Cornell University, and the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University) operating concurrently with Cornell University, and graduates from these four contracted colleges/school have alumni status from both institutions.

Title: Western United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_United_States
Summary: The Western United States (also called the American West, the Western States, the Far West, the Western territories, and the West) is one of the four census regions defined by the United States Census Bureau.
As American settlement in the U.S. expanded westward, the meaning of the term the West changed. Before around 1800, the crest of the Appalachian Mountains was seen as the western frontier. The frontier moved westward and eventually the lands west of the Mississippi River were considered the West.
The U.S. Census Bureau's definition of the 13 westernmost states includes the Rocky Mountains and the Great Basin to the Pacific Coast, Alaska and the mid-Pacific islands state, Hawaii. To the east of the Western United States is the Midwestern United States and the Southern United States, with Canada to the north and Mexico to the south.
The West contains several major biomes, including arid and semi-arid plateaus and plains, particularly in the American Southwest; forested mountains, including three major ranges, the Sierra Nevada, the Cascades, and Rocky Mountains; the long coastal shoreline of the Pacific Coast; and the rainforests of the Pacific Northwest.

Title: James G. Boswell Foundation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_G._Boswell_Foundation
Summary: The James G. Boswell Foundation is the charitable foundation established in 1947 by James Griffin Boswell (May 13, 1882 – 1952), founder of the J. G. Boswell Company, a successful farm and agricultural supplies enterprise established in Corcoran, California in 1921.  The Foundation supports agricultural, general education, health concerns, pre-college private schools, public broadcasting, rural affairs groups and youth organizations. The Foundation has also provided support for the Institute for Agricultural Genomics at the University of California, Riverside.
Until his death in 2009, the Foundation was headed by J. G. Boswell, II, nephew of the company founder. J.W. Boswell, son of J.G. Boswell, II, now heads company operations, centered in California's Central Valley. A primary asset of the Boswell Foundation is its shareholding in the Boswell Corporation. Measured by farmed acreage, Boswell Corporation is the largest farming operation in California and one of the largest worldwide. Shares of the Boswell Corporation are traded on the "pink sheets," but very little information on this business is publicly available, even for non-management shareholders.

Title: List of colleges and universities in Texas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_colleges_and_universities_in_Texas
Summary: There are 234 colleges and universities in the State of Texas that are listed under the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. These institutions include thirty-four research universities, twenty-nine master's universities, ninety-two undergraduate schools, and seventy-one special-focus institutions. One hundred twenty-three of Texas' post-secondary institutions are private, of which fifty-four are for-profit. One hundred three of the state's post-secondary institutions are public.
Southwestern University is the state's oldest post-secondary institution, having been founded in 1840. Texas A&M University is the state's largest of higher learning in terms of enrollment and largest public university, having 77,491 students  while Southwest College for the Deaf is the state's smallest college with an enrollment of 48 in the fall of 2023. Texas is also home to a number of internationally recognized universities, including the University of Texas, Texas A&M University, and Rice University which are ranked among the top two hundred universities in the world.
Texas A&M University and Prairie View A&M University are the state's two public land-grant universities. There are also six Catholic post-secondary institutions, including St. Edward's University, University of Dallas, and University of the Incarnate Word. There are also four Southern Baptist post-secondary institutions in Texas, including Baylor University and Hardin-Simmons University. The state has sixteen medical schools, thirteen conventional and three Osteopathic programs. There are ten law schools, which are accredited by the American Bar Association, including Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law, Texas Tech University School of Law, and University of Houston Law Center. Two hundred sixteen of Texas post-secondary institutions are officially recognized by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), while most are accredited by multiple higher education accreditation agencies.