Title: Law & Order: Special Victims Unit
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_%26_Order:_Special_Victims_Unit
Summary: Law & Order: Special Victims Unit (often shortened to Law & Order: SVU or SVU) is an American police procedural crime drama television series created by Dick Wolf for NBC. The first spin-off of Law & Order, expanding it into the Law & Order franchise, it originally starred Christopher Meloni as Detective Elliot Stabler (until Meloni left the series in 2011 after 12 seasons) and Mariska Hargitay as Detective (now promoted to Captain) Olivia Benson remaining the longest starring character in the series. Law & Order: Special Victims Unit follows the detectives of the Special Victims Unit as they investigate and prosecute sex-based crimes. Some of the episodes are loosely based on real crimes that have received media attention.
The series, produced by Wolf Entertainment and Universal Television, premiered on September 20, 1999. The series has received 108 award nominations, winning 59 awards. Hargitay was the first and only regular cast member on any Law & Order series to win an Emmy Award when she won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series in 2006.
After the premiere of its 21st season in September 2019, the series became the longest-running primetime live-action series on American television. Since the end of the original run of the main Law & Order series in 2010, SVU is the only live-action primetime series having debuted in the 1990s to remain in continuous production. The 23rd season premiered on September 23, 2021, during which the show aired its milestone 500th episode. As of May 14, 2026, Law & Order: Special Victims Unit has aired 594 original episodes, well surpassing the episode count of the original Law & Order series. In terms of all-time episode count for an American primetime scripted series, SVU now ranks third behind The Simpsons (with 808 episodes) and Gunsmoke (with 635 episodes). The 25th season premiered on January 18, 2024, and on March 21, 2024, NBC announced that it had renewed the series for its 26th season, which premiered on October 3, 2024. The 27th season premiered on September 25, 2025. In April 2026, the series was renewed for a 28th season, which will premiere on October 8 of the same year.
The two longest-running regular characters in primetime live-action scripted American television history both achieved that record on SVU. Richard Belzer's John Munch character began his 21st consecutive season as a main character, first on Homicide: Life on the Street and then on SVU, in the show's 14th season in fall 2012, breaking the 20-season record held by two cast members of Gunsmoke and remaining through SVU's 15th season before departing as a regular. In fall 2021, Mariska Hargitay began her 23rd season as Olivia Benson, in turn breaking Belzer's record.

Title: Tracee Ellis Ross
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tracee_Ellis_Ross
Summary: Tracee Joy Silberstein (born October 29, 1972), known professionally as Tracee Ellis Ross, is an American actress. The daughter of Motown singer Diana Ross, she is known for her lead roles in the television series Girlfriends (2000–2008) and Black-ish (2014–2022) receiving nominations for five Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series for the latter.
Ross began acting in independent films and variety series. She hosted the pop-culture magazine The Dish on Lifetime. From 2000 to 2008, Ross played the starring role of Joan Clayton in the UPN/CW comedy series Girlfriends, and received two NAACP Image Awards for Outstanding Actress in a Comedy Series for the role. She also has appeared in the films Hanging Up (2000), I-See-You.Com (2006), and Daddy's Little Girls (2007), before returning to television playing Dr. Carla Reed on the BET sitcom Reed Between the Lines (2011), winning her third NAACP Image Award for the lattermost.
From 2014 to 2022, Ross starred as Dr. Rainbow Johnson in the ABC comedy series, Black-ish. Her work on it has earned her six NAACP Image Awards and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Musical or Comedy. She has also received nominations for two Critics' Choice Television Awards and five Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series. In 2019, she co-created a prequel spin-off of Black-ish titled Mixed-ish. In 2020, she starred in and recorded the soundtrack album for the musical film The High Note.

Title: Lin-Manuel Miranda
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lin-Manuel_Miranda
Summary: Lin-Manuel Miranda ( man-WELL; born January 16, 1980) is an American songwriter, actor, filmmaker, librettist, and producer. He created the Broadway musicals In the Heights and Hamilton, and the soundtracks for the animated films Moana, Vivo, and Encanto. He has received numerous accolades including a Pulitzer Prize for Drama, three Tony Awards, two Laurence Olivier Awards, two Emmy Awards, and five Grammy Awards, along with nominations for two Academy Awards. He received the Kennedy Center Honor in 2018.
Miranda made his Broadway debut in 2008, writing the music and lyrics for and starring in the musical In the Heights, which won the Tony Award for Best Musical and Best Original Score and the Grammy Award for Best Musical Theater Album. It was later adapted as a 2021 film of the same name. Miranda returned to Broadway in 2015, writing the script, music, and lyrics, as well as starring in the musical Hamilton, which was praised by critics and became a popular culture phenomenon. Hamilton won the Pulitzer Prize and was nominated for a record 16 Tonys and won 11, including Miranda's first win for the Best Book of a Musical. The Hamilton cast recording spent 10 weeks atop Billboard's Top Rap Albums chart and became the eleventh-biggest album of the 2010s.
A frequent collaborator of the Walt Disney Company, Miranda has written original songs for the studio. He gained two Oscar nominations for "How Far I'll Go" and "Dos Oruguitas" from Moana and Encanto, respectively. The song "We Don't Talk About Bruno" from Encanto broke various records and marked Miranda's first number-one song on the US  Billboard Hot 100 and the UK Singles charts. He starred as Jack in the musical fantasy Mary Poppins Returns (2018), for which he was nominated for a Golden Globe. For his performance in the Disney+ live stage recording of Hamilton released in 2020, he received a Golden Globe and Primetime Emmy nomination. Miranda debuted as a film director with Tick, Tick... Boom!.
His television work includes recurring roles on The Electric Company (2009–2010) and His Dark Materials (2019–2022). Miranda received Primetime Emmy Award-nominations for hosting Saturday Night Live in 2016, and guest starring in Curb Your Enthusiasm in 2018. He has been politically active on behalf of Puerto Rico. Miranda met with politicians in 2016 to speak out in favor of debt relief for Puerto Rico and raised funds for rescue efforts and disaster relief after Hurricane Maria in 2017.

Title: Sausage Party: Foodtopia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sausage_Party:_Foodtopia
Summary: Sausage Party: Foodtopia is an adult animated dark comedy television series that serves as a sequel to the film Sausage Party (2016) created by Seth Rogen, Evan Goldberg, Kyle Hunter, and Ariel Shaffir, and developed by the latter two for Amazon Prime Video.  It features the returning voices of Rogen, Kristen Wiig, Michael Cera, Edward Norton, David Krumholtz and Scott "Diggs" Underwood, with Will Forte, Sam Richardson, Stephanie Beard, Natasha Rothwell, and Yassir Lester voicing new characters. Season 2 adds Jillian Bell,
Martin Starr, Marion Cotillard, Patti Harrison, and Andre Braugher.
The first season premiered on Amazon Prime Video on July 11, 2024. The series received generally mixed reviews from critics, who praised its voice acting, animation, score, and humor, while others were divided about its controversial political themes, and criticized its writing and characters. The second season premiered on August 13, 2025.

Title: 2026 in American television
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_in_American_television
Summary: Certain American television events in 2026 have been scheduled. Events listed include television show debuts, finales, and cancellations; channel launches, closures, and rebrandings; stations changing or adding their network affiliations; information on controversies, business transactions, and carriage disputes; and deaths of those who made various contributions to the medium.