Title: Supercomputer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supercomputer
Summary: A supercomputer is a type of computer with a high level of performance as compared to a general-purpose computer. Supercomputers play an important role in the field of computational science, and are used for a wide range of computationally intensive tasks in various fields including quantum mechanics, weather forecasting, climate research, oil and gas exploration, molecular modeling (computing the structures and properties of chemical compounds, biological macromolecules, polymers, and crystals), and physical simulations (such as simulations of aerodynamics, of the early moments of the universe, and of nuclear weapons). They have been essential in the field of cryptanalysis.
The performance of a supercomputer is commonly measured in floating-point operations per second (FLOPS) instead of million instructions per second (MIPS). Since 2022, exascale supercomputers have existed which can perform over 1018 FLOPS. For comparison, a desktop computer has performance in the range of hundreds of gigaFLOPS (1011) to tens of teraFLOPS (1013). Since November 2017, all of the world's fastest 500 supercomputers run on Linux-based operating systems. Additional research is being conducted in the United States, the European Union, Taiwan, Japan, and China to build faster, more powerful and technologically superior exascale supercomputers.
Supercomputers were introduced in the 1960s, and for several decades the fastest was made by Seymour Cray at Control Data Corporation (CDC), Cray Research and subsequent companies bearing his name or monogram. The first such machines were highly tuned conventional designs that ran quicker than their more general-purpose contemporaries. Through the decade, increasing amounts of parallelism were added, with one to four processors being typical. In the 1970s, vector processors operating on large arrays of data came to dominate. A notable example is the highly successful Cray-1 of 1976. Vector computers remained the dominant design into the 1990s. From then until today, massively parallel supercomputers with tens of thousands of off-the-shelf processors became the norm.
The U.S. has long been a leader in the supercomputer field, initially through Cray's nearly uninterrupted dominance and later through a variety of technology companies. Japan made significant advancements in the field during the 1980s and 1990s, while China has become increasingly active in supercomputing in recent years. As of June 2026, LineShine of the National Supercomputing Center in Shenzhen is the world's fastest supercomputer.  The US has four of the top 10; Italy two, Japan, Germany, Switzerland and China have one each.

Title: TOP500
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TOP500
Summary: The TOP500 project ranks and details the 500 most powerful non-distributed computer systems in the world. The project was started in 1993 and publishes an updated list of the supercomputers twice a year. The first of these updates always coincides with the International Supercomputing Conference in June, and the second is presented at the ACM/IEEE Supercomputing Conference in November. The project aims to provide a reliable basis for tracking and detecting trends in high-performance computing and bases rankings on HPL benchmarks, a portable implementation of the high-performance LINPACK benchmark written in Fortran for distributed-memory computers.
The most recent edition of TOP500 was published in June 2026. As of June 2026, China's LineShine is the most powerful supercomputer in the TOP500, reaching 2,198 petaFlops on the LINPACK benchmarks. As of submitted data until June 2026, the United States has the highest number of systems with 161 supercomputers; Japan is in second place with 44, and Germany is the third place with 41; the United States has by far the highest share of total computing power on the list (37.5%). Due to secrecy of the latest Chinese programs, publicly known supercomputer performance share in China represents only 2% that of global as of June 2025.
The TOP500 list is compiled by Jack Dongarra of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Erich Strohmaier and Horst Simon of the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL), and, until his death in 2014, Hans Meuer of the University of Mannheim, Germany. The TOP500 project also includes lists such as Green500 (measuring energy efficiency) and HPCG (measuring I/O bandwidth).

Title: History of supercomputing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_supercomputing
Summary: The history of supercomputing goes back to the 1960s when a series of computers at Control Data Corporation (CDC) were designed by Seymour Cray to use innovative designs and parallelism to achieve superior computational peak performance. The CDC 6600, released in 1964, is generally considered the first supercomputer. However, some earlier computers were considered supercomputers for their day such as the 1954 IBM NORC and 1955 AN/FSQ-7 vacuum tube computers in the 1950s, and in the early 1960s, the UNIVAC LARC (1960), the IBM 7030 Stretch (1962), and the Manchester Atlas (1962), all of which were of comparable power.
While the supercomputers of the 1980s used only a few processors, in the 1990s, machines with thousands of processors began to appear both in the United States and in Japan, setting new computational performance records. By the end of the 20th century, massively parallel supercomputers with thousands of "off-the-shelf" processors similar to those found in personal computers were constructed and broke through the teraFLOPS computational barrier. Progress in the first decade of the 21st century was dramatic and supercomputers with over 60,000 processors appeared, reaching petaFLOPS performance levels.

Title: El Capitan (supercomputer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Capitan_(supercomputer)
Summary: Hewlett Packard Enterprise El Capitan is an exascale supercomputer, hosted at  Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in Livermore, California, United States, that became operational in 2024. It is based on the Cray EX Shasta architecture.
El Capitan was the world's fastest supercomputer in the TOP500 rankings from November 2024 to June 2026, displacing Frontier at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. El Capitan is the third exascale system deployed by the United States and its primary purpose is to support the stockpile stewardship program of the US National Nuclear Security Administration.
It was surpassed as the fastest supercomputer in the world by LineShine.

Title: LineShine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LineShine
Summary: LineShine (Chinese: 灵晟; pinyin: Língshèng) is a Chinese exascale supercomputer, hosted at the National Supercomputing Centre in Shenzhen (NSCS), that became operational in the first half of 2026. It is based on the LingKun architecture using LX2 CPUs. It placed first in the TOP500 and HPCG rankings in June 2026, surpassing El Capitan.