Title: Balraj Sahni
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balraj_Sahni
Summary: Balraj Sahni (born Yudhishthir Sahni; 1 May 1913 – 13 April 1973) was an Indian film and stage actor, who is best known for Dharti Ke Lal (1946), Hum Log (1951), Do Bigha Zameen (1953), Chhoti Bahen (1959), Kabuliwala (1961), Waqt (1965) and Garm Hava (1973). He was the brother of Bhisham Sahni, the Hindi writer, playwright, and actor. He won a Filmfare Special Award for outstanding contribution to Indian films in 1970.

Title: Padma Subrahmanyam
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Padma_Subrahmanyam
Summary: Padma Subrahmanyam (born 4 February 1943, in Madras), is an Indian classical Bharatanatyam dancer. She is also a research scholar, choreographer,  teacher, Indologist and author. She is famous in India as well as abroad; several films and documentaries have been made in her honor by countries such as Japan, Australia and Russia. She is well known as the developer and founder of the dance form Bharata Nrithyam.

Title: Shobha Deepak Singh
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shobha_Deepak_Singh
Summary: Shobha Deepak Singh (born 21 October 1943) is an Indian cultural impresario, photographer, writer, classical dancer and the director of Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra, a Delhi-based cultural organization which promotes music and performing arts, through its schools and stage shows. She is known for her contributions for the revival of Mayurbhanj Chhau, a tribal martial dance form from Odisha. The Government of India awarded her the fourth highest civilian award of the Padma Shri in 1999, for her contributions to Arts and culture.

Title: Doddarangegowda
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doddarangegowda
Summary: Doddarangegowda (born 7 February 1946) is an Indian poet and lyricist working in Kannada cinema. He is a retired professor of Kannada and has published a number of anthologies in Kannada. He has released several audio cassettes and CDs of his poems. Some of his noteworthy songs are Tera Yeri Ambaradaage and Notadaage Nageya Meeti of Parasangada Gendethimma, Nammoora Mandara Hoove of Aalemane, Sri Rama Bandavne of Paduvaaralli Pandavaru. He was also a Bharatiya Janata Party MLC. In 2018, he was awarded with the civilian award Padma Shri.

Title: Deepak Ahuja
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deepak_Ahuja
Summary: Deepak Prabhu Ahuja (born on January 1963) is an  Indian-American executive working in the life sciences industry who previously worked in the automotive manufacturing industry. He is best known for serving as the chief financial  officer of Tesla for eleven years.