Title: Prime Minister of Australia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_Australia
Summary: The prime minister of Australia is the head of government of the Commonwealth of Australia. The prime minister is the chair of the Cabinet of Australia and thus the head of the federal executive government. Under the principles of responsible government, the prime minister is a member of, and accountable to, the Commonwealth Parliament. The current prime minister is Anthony Albanese of the Australian Labor Party, who assumed office on 23 May 2022.
The role and duties of the prime minister are not specified in the Australian Constitution, but rather, are defined by constitutional convention deriving from the Westminster system and responsible government. The prime minister is formally appointed by the governor-general, who is ordinarily constrained by convention to choose the parliamentarian who is able to command the confidence of the House of Representatives (the lower house). This has almost always been the leader of the majority party or coalition. In cases where there is no clear parliamentary majority, the governor-general may appoint whichever party leader can secure confidence and supply, which is normally obtained through an agreement with crossbench MPs. In practice, the prime minister most often changes after an election results in a different party gaining control of the lower house, or as a result of the governing party undergoing a change of leadership between elections.
The office of prime minister comes with various privileges, including the use of two official residences: The Lodge in Canberra and Kirribilli House in Sydney, as well as an office at Parliament House.
Thirty-one people (thirty men and one woman) have served as prime minister. The first was Edmund Barton, who took office on 1 January 1901 following the federation of the British colonies in Australia. The longest-serving prime minister was Robert Menzies, who served over 18 years, and the shortest-serving was Frank Forde, who served one week.

Title: Prime Minister of Canada
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_Canada
Summary: The prime minister of Canada is the head of government of Canada. Under the Westminster system, the prime minister governs with the confidence of a majority of the elected House of Commons; as such, the prime minister typically sits as a member of Parliament (MP) and leads the largest party or a coalition of parties. As first minister, the prime minister selects ministers to form the Cabinet.
Not outlined in any constitutional document, the prime minister is appointed by the monarch's representative, the governor general, and the office exists per long-established convention. Constitutionally, executive authority is vested in the monarch (who is the head of state), but the powers of the monarch and governor general are nearly always exercised on the advice of the Cabinet, which is collectively responsible to the House of Commons. Canadian prime ministers are appointed to the Privy Council and styled as the Right Honourable (French: le très honorable), a privilege maintained for life.
The prime minister is supported by the Prime Minister's Office and heads the Privy Council Office. The prime minister also selects individuals for appointment as governor general, provincial lieutenant governors, territorial commissioners, as well as to the Senate of Canada, Supreme Court of Canada, other federal courts, and senior members of the military and public service.
Mark Carney is the current prime minister of Canada, taking office on March 14, 2025. Since Canadian Confederation in 1867, 24 prime ministers have formed 30 ministries.

Title: Prime minister of the United Kingdom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_minister_of_the_United_Kingdom
Summary: The prime minister of the United Kingdom is the head of government of the United Kingdom. The prime minister advises the sovereign on the exercise of much of the royal prerogative, chairs the Cabinet, and selects its ministers. Modern prime ministers hold office by virtue of their ability to command the confidence of the House of Commons, so they are invariably members of Parliament. 
The office of prime minister is not established by any statute or constitutional document, but exists only by long-established convention, whereby the monarch appoints as prime minister the person most likely to command the confidence of the House of Commons. In practice, this is the leader of the political party that holds the largest number of seats in the Commons. The prime minister is ex officio also First Lord of the Treasury (an office often associated with the premiership between 1721 and 1895, after 1902 always united to it, and, after 1905, an official title of the position), Minister for the Civil Service, the minister responsible for national security, and Minister for the Union. The prime minister's official residence and office is 10 Downing Street in London.
The power of the prime minister depends on the support of their respective party and on the popular mandate. The appointment of cabinet ministers and granting of honours are done through the prime minister's power of appointment. The prime minister, alongside the cabinet, proposes new legislation and decides on key policies, which are then passed by an act of parliament.
The power of the office of prime minister has grown significantly since the first prime minister, Robert Walpole in 1721. The prime minister was originally viewed as the primus inter pares ("first among equals"). Prime ministerial power evolved gradually alongside the office itself, and the prime minister has played an increasingly prominent role in British politics since the early 20th century. During the premierships of Margaret Thatcher and Tony Blair, prime ministerial power expanded substantially, and their leaderships in the office were described as "presidential" due to their personal wielding of power and tight control over their cabinet. The prime minister is one of the world's most powerful political leaders in modern times. As the leader of the world's fifth largest economy, the prime minister holds significant domestic and international leadership, being the leader of a prominent member state of NATO, the G7 and G20.
As of 2026, 59 people (56 men and 3 women) have served as prime minister, with the first, Walpole, taking office on 3 April 1721. The longest-serving prime minister was also Walpole, who served over 20 years, and the shortest-serving was Liz Truss, who served seven weeks. The current prime minister is Andy Burnham who has held the office since 20 July 2026.

Title: Deputy Prime Minister of Canada
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deputy_Prime_Minister_of_Canada
Summary: The deputy prime minister of Canada (French: vice-première ministre du Canada) is a position in the Canadian Cabinet which is conferred from time to time by the prime minister of Canada to a senior cabinet member. That title does not have any formal standing in law or formal duties. It is not a ministerial office, in that there is no associated departmental portfolio, since it is almost always conferred on an individual who already holds a position as Cabinet minister. As a cabinet minister, deputy prime ministers are appointed to the Privy Council and styled as the Honourable (French: l'honorable), a privilege maintained for life.
The title has not been in use at any point in the Carney ministry that is currently in office. The title was last held by Chrystia Freeland in the Trudeau Ministry between 2019 and 2024, and before Freeland by Anne McLellan in the Martin ministry between 2003 and 2006. 
The title deputy prime minister, a political title conferred upon cabinet members, should not be confused with the office of the Clerk of the Privy Council, who is both the deputy minister (a department's most senior civil servant) of the prime minister's department, the Privy Council Office, and the head of the entire civil service.

Title: Minister of Finance (Canada)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minister_of_Finance_(Canada)
Summary: The minister of finance (French: ministre des Finances) is the minister of the Crown in the Canadian Cabinet, who is responsible for overseeing the Department of Finance and presenting the federal government's budget each year. It is one of the most important positions in the Cabinet.
François-Philippe Champagne is the 42nd and current finance minister, assuming the role March 14, 2025 as a member of the new 30th Canadian Ministry of Mark Carney.