Title: DC Universe Animated Original Movies
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DC_Universe_Animated_Original_Movies
Summary: The DC Universe Animated Original Movies (DCUAOM; also known as DC Universe Original Movies or DC Universe Movies or DC Animated Movies) are a series of American direct-to-video superhero animated films based on DC Comics characters and stories. From 2007 to 2022, films were produced primarily by Warner Bros. Animation but subsequently fell under DC Studios. Many films are stand-alone projects that are either adaptations of popular works or original stories.
From 2013 to 2024, the DC Animated Movie Universe was a subset of this series. The first story arc featured several films that took place in a shared universe, influenced predominantly by "The New 52". Following the first arc's conclusion with Justice League Dark: Apokolips War (2020), the "Tomorrowverse" series was launched beginning with Superman: Man of Tomorrow that same year and ended with a trilogy, Justice League: Crisis on Infinite Earths (2024). As of 2024, the DCUAOM line released 60 films that made a total of $257 million in sales in the United States and Canada, an average of $5.4 million per film.

Title: Lists of animated films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lists_of_animated_films
Summary: These lists of animated feature films compile animated feature films from around the world and are organized alphabetically under the year of release (the year the completed film was first released to the public). Theatrical releases as well as made-for-TV (TV) and direct-to-video (V) movies of all types of animation are included. Currently, the lists don't recognize one release form from another.
In order to qualify for these lists, films must be "over 40 minutes long and have animation in at least 75% of their running time, or have at least 40 minutes of animation in total". These lists use the American Film Institute, Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and British Film Institute definitions of a feature film. For animated films under 40 minutes, see List of animated short films. For marionette films like Team America: World Police, or films featuring non-animated puppets, see Puppet films. Primarily live-action films with heavy use of special effects are also included.

Title: List of animated feature films of the 2020s
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_animated_feature_films_of_the_2020s
Summary: This is a list of animated feature films first released or planned for release in the 2020s.

List of animated feature films of 2020
List of animated feature films of 2021
List of animated feature films of 2022
List of animated feature films of 2023
List of animated feature films of 2024
List of animated feature films of 2025
List of animated feature films of 2026
List of animated feature films of 2027
List of animated feature films of 2028
List of animated feature films of 2029

Title: List of animated feature films of 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_animated_feature_films_of_2024
Summary: The following is a list of animated feature films that were released in 2024.

Title: Flow (2024 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flow_(2024_film)
Summary: Flow (Latvian: Straume) is a 2024 independent animated dystopian adventure film directed by Gints Zilbalodis, written and produced by Zilbalodis and Matīss Kaža. A Latvian, French, and Belgian co-production, it features no dialogue and follows a cat trying to survive along with other animals in a seemingly post-apocalyptic world as the water level dramatically rises.
Production of Flow started in 2019 and lasted five and a half years. The animation was done using the free and open-source software Blender. Jacques Tati and Future Boy Conan served as inspirations for the film. No storyboards were used for the production, and there are no deleted scenes.
Flow premiered on 22 May 2024 at the Cannes Film Festival in the Un Certain Regard section and was released in Latvian theaters on 29 August. It received critical acclaim and broke several Latvian box-office records, becoming the most-viewed film in Latvian theaters in history. At the 97th Academy Awards, Flow won Best Animated Feature. It was also nominated for Best International Feature Film as Latvia's submission, becoming the first film from Latvia to receive an Academy Award nomination and a win. Flow also won the Golden Globe Award for Best Animated Feature Film. Both of the award statuettes were put on display at the Latvian National Museum of Art.