Title: Luxury car
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luxury_car
Summary: A luxury car is a passenger automobile providing superior comfort levels, features, and equipment. More expensive materials and surface finishes are used, and buyers expect a correspondingly high build quality.
The term is relative and unavoidably subjective, reflecting both objective qualities of a car and the projected and perceived image of the vehicle's marque. Luxury brands rank above premium brands, though there is no clear distinction between the two.
Luxury cars span from sports cars to large saloons and sport utility vehicles. "Compact" luxury vehicles also fill a niche.

Title: Personal luxury car
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_luxury_car
Summary: Personal luxury car is a North American car classification describing somewhat sporty, sophisticated mass-market coupés that emphasized comfort over performance. The North American manufacturers most often combined engineering, design, and marketing to develop upscale, distinctive "platform sharing" models that became highly profitable.
Although luxury coupes had been produced in North America for several decades, the beginning of the "personal luxury car" market segment is generally considered to have started in 1958. It was the success of the Ford Thunderbird (second generation) when it was redesigned from a two-seat car to a four-seat vehicle. These changes shifted the Thunderbird's emphasis from sporting to comfort and luxury, and sales increased by 50 percent. The Thunderbird was sold for eleven generations up until the 2005 model year.
The longest-running nameplate of the personal luxury car was the Cadillac Eldorado, which had a 50-year production run that began in the 1953 model year. Initially, it designated ultra-premium, low-volume versions of lower-priced Cadillac models, including the hand-built four-door 1957 Eldorado Brougham. According to Hemmings Motor News, Cadillac first entered the "personal luxury car" market in 1967, with a smaller high-volume model.
Before the late 1970s, personal luxury cars were typically large, rear-wheel-drive vehicles powered by large V8 engines. As a result of the downsizing trend in the American automotive industry during the late 1970s, many personal luxury cars were produced as mid-size cars with six-cylinder engines and front-wheel drive. By the 2000s, the personal luxury market had diminished as consumers migrated to other market segments.

Title: List of automotive manufacturers by production
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_automotive_manufacturers_by_production
Summary: This is a list of the biggest motor vehicle manufacturers by annual sales or production, compiled using data from F&I Tools USA (2018 onwards) and the Organisation internationale des Constructeurs d'Automobiles (OICA) (2001–2017).

Title: Luxury Car Tax
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luxury_Car_Tax
Summary: The Luxury Car Tax (LCT) is a tax within the Australian taxation system, collected by the Australian Taxation Office on behalf of the Government of Australia. It was introduced under A New Tax System (Luxury Car Tax) Act 1999 by the Howard government, and commenced on 1 July 2000.

Title: Yangwang
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yangwang
Summary: Yangwang Auto (Chinese: 仰望汽车; lit. 'looking up', 'admire') is a Chinese luxury electric car brand owned by BYD Auto and marketed by Shenzhen Yangwang Auto Sales Co., Ltd. The brand was introduced in January 2023. In the Chinese market, Yangwang vehicles occupies the price range above CN¥1 million (approximately US$140,000), competing with European luxury brands. As of 2024, Yangwang is positioned above two other BYD sub-brands, Denza and Fangchengbao.
Yangwang is the first brand to introduce BYD's proprietary individual wheel drive (IWD) technology platform called "e4" (易四方). The brand logo is the Chinese character for "lightning" or "electricity" in oracle bone script.