Title: Dhanush
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dhanush
Summary: Venkatesh Prabhu Kasthuri Raja (born 28 July 1983), known professionally as Dhanush, is an Indian actor, filmmaker, lyricist and playback singer who works primarily in Tamil films, as well as few Hindi and Telugu films. Having starred in 50 films over his career, his accolades include four National Film Awards, two Tamil Nadu State Film Awards, fourteen SIIMA Awards, eight Filmfare Awards South and a Filmfare Award. One of the highest paid actors in Tamil cinema, he has been included in the Forbes India Celebrity 100 list six times.
Dhanush's debut film was Thulluvadho Ilamai, a 2002 coming-of-age film directed by his father, Kasthuri Raja. He achieved further success in Polladhavan (2007) and Yaaradi Nee Mohini (2008), both of which were critically acclaimed and commercially successful. His role as a rooster fight jockey in Aadukalam (2010) won him the National Film Award for Best Actor and the Filmfare Award for Best Actor – Tamil. He continued success with films, including Maryan (2013), Velaiilla Pattadhari (2014), Anegan (2015), Maari (2015), Kodi (2016), Vada Chennai (2018), Asuran (2019), Thiruchitrambalam (2022), Vaathi (2023) and Raayan (2024), the lattermost of which emerged as his highest-grossing release.
In 2011, Dhanush's popular song "Why This Kolaveri Di" from the romantic psychological thriller film 3 (2012) became the first Indian music video to cross 100 million views on YouTube. He made his Hindi film debut with Aanand L. Rai's Raanjhanaa (2013). His performance as an obsessive one-sided lover in the film won him the Filmfare Award for Best Male Debut in addition to a nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Actor. Dhanush produces films through his production company, Wunderbar Films, and made his directorial debut with Pa. Pandi (2017). His song "Rowdy Baby" from Maari 2 became one of the most-viewed Indian songs of all time. It is the first South Indian video song to reach one billion views on YouTube. Dhanush won his second National Film Award for Best Actor for Asuran (2019).

Title: List of actors with more than one Academy Award nomination in the acting categories
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_actors_with_more_than_one_Academy_Award_nomination_in_the_acting_categories
Summary: The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) have presented their annual Academy Awards, commonly known as the Oscars, for over 90 years. The Academy Awards for Best Actor and Best Actress have been presented since the 1st ceremony in 1929, and the awards for Best Supporting Actor and Best Supporting Actress have been presented since the 9th ceremony in 1937. Of the 993 Academy Award nominees in an acting category, a total of 366 have received two or more acting nominations, 181 women and 185 men.
A three-time Oscar winner, Meryl Streep is the most nominated performer in the acting categories, with 21 nominations between 1979 and 2018. Streep's total includes a record seventeen best actress nominations. Katharine Hepburn is the secondmost nominated actress with twelve nominations; followed by Bette Davis as thirdmost, with ten total nominations—excluding her eleventh, unofficial write-in campaign (which preceded all ten).[A]
Eight actors have won three or more Oscars in the acting categories, with Hepburn being the only person to win four acting Oscars, spanning from her first in 1934 to her fourth in 1982. Ingrid Bergman and Streep each have two statuettes for leading and one supporting actress win, while Jack Nicholson and Sean Penn nabbed the same tally for male actors. Daniel Day-Lewis became the first and currently only man to win three best actor Oscars, while Frances McDormand became the second woman and third of her counterparts overall to achieve the same. Finally, Walter Brennan won his three supporting actor Oscars every other year between 1937 and 1941.
Thelma Ritter has a record six best supporting actress nominations, albeit without a win. The only women to have won two Oscars in the supporting actress category are Shelley Winters and Dianne Wiest. The seven women to have won in both the lead and supporting actress categories are Bergman, Streep, Helen Hayes, Maggie Smith, Jessica Lange, Cate Blanchett, and Renée Zellweger.
Jack Nicholson is the most nominated male performer in the acting categories with eight for best actor and four for best supporting actor, for a total of twelve nominations and three wins. The record for most best actor nominations is nine, for both Spencer Tracy and Laurence Olivier. With Olivier's one additional supporting actor nod, his total is ten, ranking him secondmost. Along with Tracy, Al Pacino and Paul Newman are among the most nominated overall actors, with nine each. Seven actors have each received four best supporting actor nominations. The seven men to have won in both the lead and supporting actor categories are Jack Lemmon, Robert De Niro, Nicholson, Gene Hackman, Kevin Spacey, Denzel Washington, and Sean Penn.
Peter O'Toole and Glenn Close jointly hold the record for most nominations in the acting categories without a win, with eight; followed by Richard Burton with seven; and Deborah Kerr, Ritter, and Amy Adams with six. O'Toole, Close, and Kerr did receive the Academy Honorary Award.

Title: Malik Delgaty
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malik_Delgaty
Summary: Justin Lesage (born 29 September 2000), known professionally as Malik Delgaty, is a Canadian actor in gay pornographic films. He began working as a stripper at 18 years old in his hometown of Montreal before signing an exclusive contract with Men.com in 2020. He was the most searched-for gay pornographic actor online from 2022 to 2024 and has won three GayVN Awards.

Title: List of Year in Search top searches
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Year_in_Search_top_searches
Summary: Year in Search (formerly Google Zeitgeist) is an annual list compiled and published by Google since 2001. The report highlights the most popular online search trends of the year, based on aggregate data from searches conducted worldwide, as tracked by Google Trends. It includes top search queries in various categories, both at a global level and for individual countries.
Starting in 2010, Google uploaded their Year in Search videos to their YouTube channel.

Title: Joey Mills
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joey_Mills
Summary: Joey Mills (born May 20, 1998) is an American pornographic actor, known initially for his films for Helix Studios, and later with other studios including Men.com. Primarily a bottom performer, Mills was considered one of the most recognizable twinks in the industry and won numerous awards for his work. In 2021, he was the most searched-for gay porn star on the internet according to the website Str8Up Gay Porn, and was the second-most searched gay performer on Pornhub in 2023.