Title: 1990s
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1990s
Summary: The 1990s (often referred to as and shortened to "the '90s", "the Nineties", "the 90's", or "the '90's") was a decade that began on 1 January 1990, and ended on 31 December 1999. Known as the "post-Cold War decade", the 1990s were culturally imagined as the period from the Revolutions of 1989 until the September 11 attacks in 2001. The dissolution of the Soviet Union marked the end of Russia's status as a superpower, the end of a multipolar world, and the rise of anti-Western sentiment. China was still recovering from a politically and economically turbulent period, allowing the US to emerge as the world's sole superpower, creating relative peace and prosperity for many western countries. During this decade, the world population grew from 5.3 to 6.1 billion.
The decade saw greater attention to multiculturalism and advance of alternative media. Public education about safe sex curbed HIV in developed countries. Generation X bonded over musical tastes. Humor in television and film was marked by ironic self-references mixed with popular culture references. Alternative music movements like grunge, reggaeton, Eurodance, K-pop, and hip-hop, became popular, aided by the rise in satellite and cable television, and the internet. New music genres such as drum and bass, post-rock, happy hardcore, denpa, and trance emerged. Video game popularity exploded due to the development of CD-ROM supported 3D computer graphics on platforms such as Sony PlayStation, Nintendo 64, and PCs.
The 1990s saw advances in technology, with the World Wide Web, evolution of the Pentium microprocessor, rechargeable lithium-ion batteries, the first gene therapy trial, and cloning. The Human Genome Project was launched in 1990, by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with the goal to sequence the entire human genome. Building the Large Hadron Collider, the world's largest and highest-energy particle accelerator, commenced in 1998, and Nasdaq became the first US stock market to trade online. Environmentalism is divided between left-wing green politics, primary industry-sponsored environmentalist front organizations, and a more business-oriented approach to the regulation of carbon footprint of businesses. More businesses started using information technology.
There was a realignment and consolidation of economic and political power, such as the continued mass-mobilization of capital markets through neoliberalism, globalization, and end of the Cold War. Network cultures were enhanced by the proliferation of new media such as the internet, and a new ability to self-publish web pages and make connections on professional, political and hobby topics. The digital divide was immediate, with access limited to those who could afford it and knew how to operate a computer. The internet provided anonymity for individuals skeptical of the government. Traditional mass media continued to perform strongly. However, mainstream internet users were optimistic about its benefits, particularly the future of e-commerce. Web portals, a curated bookmark homepage, were as popular as searching via web crawlers. The dot-com bubble of 1997–2000 brought wealth to some entrepreneurs before its crash of the early-2000s.
Many countries were economically prosperous and spreading globalization. High-income countries experienced steady growth during the Great Moderation (1980s—2000s). Using a mobile phone in a public place was typical conspicuous consumption. In contrast, the GDP of former Soviet Union states declined as a result of neoliberal restructuring. International trade increased with the establishment of the European Union (EU) in 1993, North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1994, and World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1995. The Asia-Pacific economies of the Four Asian Tigers, ASEAN, Australia and Japan were hampered by the 1997 Asian financial crisis and early 1990s recession.
Major wars that began include the First and Second Congo Wars, the Rwandan Civil War and genocide, the Somali Civil War, and Sierra Leone Civil War in Africa; the Yugoslav Wars and Bosnian Genocide in Southeast Europe; the First and Second Chechen Wars, in the former Soviet Union; and the Gulf War in the Middle East. The Afghanistan conflict (1978–present) and Colombian conflict continued. The Oslo Accords seemed to herald an end to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, but this was in vain. However, in Northern Ireland, the Troubles came to a standstill in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement, ending 30 years of violence.

Title: Indianapolis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indianapolis
Summary: Indianapolis (  IN-dee-ə-NAP-əl-iss), colloquially known as Indy, is the capital and most populous city of the U.S. state of Indiana and the county seat of Marion County. Indianapolis is situated in the state's central till plain region along the west fork of the White River. The city's official slogan, "Crossroads of America", reflects its historic importance as a transportation hub and its relative proximity to other major North American markets.
According to the 2020 census, the Indianapolis proper had a population of 887,642. Indianapolis is the 16th-most populous city in the United States and the fourth-most populous state capital. In the Midwest, it ranks third among cities, after Chicago and Columbus, Ohio. The Indianapolis metropolitan area is the 33rd-most populous metropolitan statistical area in the United States, home to 2.1 million residents. With a population of more than 2.6 million, the combined statistical area ranks 28th. Indianapolis proper covers 368 square miles (950 square kilometers), making it the 18th-most extensive city by land area in the country.
Indigenous peoples inhabited the area dating to as early as 10,000 BC. Under the Treaty of St. Mary's (1818), both the Lenape and the Miami Nation relinquished their tribal lands in central Indiana. The Miami Nation of Indiana (and its branch, the Miami Nation of Oklahoma) held primary claim to the territory, which forms part of Cession 99. In 1821, Indianapolis was established as a planned city for the new seat of Indiana's state government. The city was platted by Alexander Ralston and Elias Pym Fordham on a one-square-mile (2.6 km2) grid. Completion of the National and Michigan roads and later arrival of rail solidified the city's position as a major manufacturing and commercial center. Since the 1970 city-county consolidation, known as Unigov, local government administration operates under the direction of an elected 25-member city-county council headed by the mayor.
Indianapolis anchors the 28th largest metropolitan economy in the United States. Prominent industries include trade, transportation, and utilities; education and health services; professional and business services; government; leisure and hospitality; and manufacturing. The city has notable niche markets in amateur sports and auto racing. As of 2019, Indianapolis has been home to two major league sports teams, three Fortune 500 companies, eight university campuses, and numerous cultural institutions, including the world's largest children's museum. The city's international reputation rests primarily on the Indianapolis 500, the world's largest single-day sporting event. Among the city's historic sites and districts, Indianapolis is home to the largest collection of monuments dedicated to veterans and war casualties in the United States outside of Washington, D.C.

Title: Basketball in Lithuania
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basketball_in_Lithuania
Summary: Basketball is the most popular sport in Lithuania. During public opinion polls in Lithuania, citizens regularly describe basketball as their priority interest sport. Research in 2015 indicated that nearly 41% of the population in Lithuania watched the EuroBasket 2015 final between Lithuania and Spain. The final became the most watched event of the 21st century in Lithuania. The popularity of basketball among Lithuanians led to it being nicknamed as the "second religion" in Lithuania.
In the 1930s, Lithuanian-American basketball coaches and players helped the Lithuania men's national basketball team win the last EuroBasket tournaments prior to World War II in 1937 and 1939. These events caused an increase in the popularity of basketball in Lithuania.
Following the country's occupation by the Soviet Union during World War II, Lithuanian players frequently competed with the Soviet men's national team. Lithuanian locals supported BC Žalgiris, particularly against Russian teams. After Lithuania's independence from the Soviet Union in 1990, the national team won a bronze medal in the 1992 Olympics. Lithuania has since won two more bronze medals at the Olympics, a bronze medal at the 2010 FIBA World Championship, and five EuroBasket medals, including the country's third title at FIBA EuroBasket 2003 in Sweden.
At the professional club level, BC Žalgiris won the EuroLeague in 1999 and the FIBA Saporta Cup in 1998. BC Žalgiris was also the FIBA Intercontinental Cup champion in 1986 under Soviet occupation. BC Lietuvos Rytas of Vilnius won the EuroCup twice in 2005 and 2009.
While women were the first to start playing basketball in Lithuania, the women's national team has not achieved the same success as the men's national team. However, they have won a title at EuroBasket Women 1997.
As of March 2025, the Lithuania men's national basketball team is ranked 10th in the FIBA Men's World Ranking. Previously, in 2015, it was ranked third below the United States' and Spain's men's national basketball teams. As of 2023, a total of 18 Lithuanian basketball players were recognized as the Lithuanian Sportsman of the Year.
The Lithuanian Basketball Player of the Year awards are given annually for men and women, while Jonas Valančiūnas (seven times) and Gintarė Petronytė (seven times) received the most such honors.

Title: All Elite Wrestling
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/All_Elite_Wrestling
Summary: All Elite Wrestling (AEW) is an American professional wrestling promotion based in Jacksonville, Florida. It is majority owned and operated by Tony Khan, who serves as president and chief executive officer. 
AEW was founded in 2019 by Khan with professional wrestlers Kenny Omega, Cody Rhodes, and brothers Matt and Nick Jackson serving as initial co-executive vice presidents, following the success of the independent wrestling event All In in 2018. AEW's roster primarily appears on its weekly broadcast television shows Dynamite and Collision, as well as on its streaming and pay-per-view (PPV) programming. AEW wrestlers have also appeared at events produced by or co-produced with other promotions, including Ring of Honor (ROH), which was acquired by Khan in 2022. AEW's programming is available in 220 territories in 50 languages.
As with other professional wrestling promotions, AEW promotes predetermined contests that are athletic and entertainment-based featuring storyline-driven, scripted, and partially choreographed matches. However, matches require considerable athletic skill and often include moves that can put performers at risk of serious injury or death if not performed correctly.
With an estimated value of US$2 billion, AEW is the second-largest wrestling promotion in the world and the third most valuable combat sports-related promotion in the world.

Title: List of NBA regular season individual records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_NBA_regular_season_individual_records
Summary: This article lists all-time individual records achieved in the NBA regular season in major statistical categories recognized by the league, including those set by teams and individuals in a game, season, and career. The NBA also recognizes records from its original incarnation, the Basketball Association of America (BAA).