Title: History of Istanbul
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Istanbul
Summary: Neolithic artifacts, uncovered by archeologists at the beginning of the 21st century, indicate that Istanbul's historic peninsula was settled as far back as the 6th millennium BCE. That early settlement, important in the spread of the Neolithic Revolution from the Near East to Europe, lasted for almost a millennium before being inundated by rising water levels. The first human settlement on the Asian side, the Fikirtepe mound, is from the Copper Age period, with artifacts dating from 5500 to 3500 BCE. On the European side, near the point of the peninsula (Sarayburnu), there was a settlement during the early 1st millennium BCE. Modern authors have linked it to the possible Thracian toponym Lygos, mentioned by Pliny the Elder as an earlier name for the site of Byzantium.
There is evidence suggesting there were settlements around the region dating as far back as 6700 BC, and it is hard to define if there was any settlement on exact spot at city proper established, but earliest records about the city proper begin around 660 BC when Greek settlers from the Attic town of Megara colonized the area and established Byzantium on the European side of the Bosphorus. It fell to the Roman Republic in 196 BC, and was known as Byzantium in Latin until 330, when the city, soon renamed as Constantinople, became the new capital of the Roman Empire. During the reign of Justinian I, the city rose to be the largest in the western world, with a population peaking at close to half a million people. Constantinople functioned as the capital of the Byzantine Empire, which effectively ended with the fall of Constantinople in 1453.  Constantinople then became the capital of the Ottoman Turks.
The population had declined during the medieval period, but as the Ottoman Empire approached its historical peak, the city grew to a population of close to 700,000 in the 16th century, once again ranking among the world's most populous cities. With the founding of the Republic of Turkey in 1923, that country's capital moved from Constantinople to Ankara (previously Angora).

Title: Istanbul Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Istanbul_Airport
Summary: Istanbul Airport (IATA: IST, ICAO: LTFM) is the larger of two international airports serving Istanbul, Turkey. It is located in the Arnavutköy district on the European side of the city. It is the largest airport in Turkey, the largest privately-owned airport operation in the world, and one of the busiest airports in Europe.
All scheduled commercial passenger flights were transferred from Atatürk Airport to Istanbul Airport on 6 April 2019, following the closure of Atatürk Airport for scheduled passenger flights. The IATA airport code IST was also transferred to the new airport.
It served more than 84 million passengers in 2025, making it the second-busiest airport in Europe in 2025, after Heathrow Airport. It was also the eighth-busiest airport in the world of 2025 in terms of total passenger traffic and, by serving more than 66 million international passengers, the sixth-busiest airport in the world in terms of international passenger traffic according to ACI World traffic values. It has regular flights to up to 122 countries and is the hub for Turkish Airlines.

Title: Municipal Council of Istanbul
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Municipal_Council_of_Istanbul
Summary: The Municipal Council of Istanbul (Turkish: İstanbul Büyükşehir Belediye Meclisi) is the decision-making organ of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. The council has decision making authority on most municipal matters with the exception of transport policy, which is handled by the Transport Coordination Center (Turkish: UKOME, Ulaşım Koordinasyon Müdürlüğü). The council, unlike other assemblies, cannot change its own rules of procedure, as these are set nationwide with the laws numbered 5216 and 5393 on Metropolitan Municipalities and Municipalities respectively.

Title: 2025 in Turkey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_in_Turkey
Summary: Individuals and events related to 2025 in Turkey.

Title: Arrest of Ekrem İmamoğlu
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arrest_of_Ekrem_%C4%B0mamo%C4%9Flu
Summary: On 19 March 2025, Istanbul mayor and presidential candidate Ekrem İmamoğlu from the opposition Republican People's Party was detained by Turkish police on suspicion of corruption, extortion, bribery, money laundering, espionage, and supporting terrorism, particularly the PKK.
İmamoğlu was later arrested and sent to Marmara Prison on corruption charges on 23 March 2025  just as he was becoming a serious challenger to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In the 2025 Republican People's Party presidential primary later that day over 15 million people voted in İmamoğlu's support. His arrest, along with that of more than 100 other people, caused widespread protests and demonstrations over perceived political motivations.
The Council of Europe, European Parliament and Human Rights Watch strongly condemned the detention of İmamoğlu, describing it as against the will of the people. After the detention, anti-government protests began in Turkey.