Title: List of Spotify streaming records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Spotify_streaming_records
Summary: The following lists contain the most streamed songs and albums as well as chart records on the audio streaming platform Spotify.

Title: List of most-streamed artists on Spotify
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most-streamed_artists_on_Spotify
Summary: The following list contains the most-streamed artists on the audio streaming platform Spotify. As of April 2026, Taylor Swift is the most-streamed artist in Spotify's history. Bad Bunny is the most-streamed male artist. 
Since 2013, Spotify has published a yearly list of its most-streamed artists, which has been topped by Bad Bunny a record four times (2020–2022; 2025), being the only artist to do so in three consecutive years. Drake has topped the list three times (2015–2016; 2018), while Swift is the only female artist to have topped the list (2023–2024).

Title: Anuv Jain
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anuv_Jain
Summary: Anuv Jain is an Indian singer songwriter and composer. He is known for his simple chorded songs with lyrics that deal primarily with love and heartbreak. His music primarily contains an acoustic guitar or ukulele, unaccompanied by percussion or other instruments.
Considered among the most popular and streamed Indian indie artists, "Baarishein" (2018), "Alag Aasmaan" (2020), "Gul" (2021), "Husn" (2023) and "Jo Tum Mere Ho" (2024) are some of his best known works. "Husn" and "Jo Tum Mere Ho" charted at No.1 on Apple Music India and Spotify India charts for all genres. "Husn" also ranked among the most streamed Indian songs of 2024 on the year-end-charts of all the music streaming platforms. Anuv featured in the Forbes India's 30 Under 30 List of 2023.

Title: Spotify Wrapped
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spotify_Wrapped
Summary: Spotify Wrapped is a year-in-review feature and viral marketing campaign hosted by Spotify every year since 2016. Typically released in late November or early December, it allows users to view a summary of their activity on the platform over the past year, which can then be shared on social media.
Spotify Wrapped typically includes the five musicians, songs, and musical genres that a Spotify user listened to the most throughout the previous year. Producers of content on the platform also have access to a version of Spotify Wrapped, which includes the number of times their content has been streamed that year. In addition to individualized data, Spotify Wrapped also includes information about activity on the Spotify platform as a whole. While Spotify Wrapped is commonly referred to as an annual collection of data, only activity from January 1st to early–mid-November is counted for any given year.
Spotify Wrapped is shared widely on social media each year and has led millions of people to promote Spotify on their social media accounts. Its release is generally accompanied by billboards and television advertisements and has historically correlated with a boost to Spotify's app store ranking. The marketing campaign has been both praised and criticized for effectively providing Spotify with free advertising and has been discussed in connection with broader questions about data and Spotify's use of it. Commentators have also analyzed the effects of Spotify Wrapped on the music industry and contrasted it with offerings by other streaming services.

Title: Controversy over fake artists on Spotify
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Controversy_over_fake_artists_on_Spotify
Summary: Since 2016, Spotify has faced accusations from numerous publications, such as Music Business Worldwide and Vulture Magazine, regarding their practice of commissioning tracks and listing them under fake names on their music platform. Some allege that the practice exists in order to reduce the amount of royalty payments distributed to real recording artists. In December 2024, the specific initiative of Perfect Fit Content (PFC) was revealed in a report by Liz Pelly, a music writer and critic whose internal investigation regarding the matter, titled "The Ghosts in the Machine", was published in Harper's Magazine. Other publications have also since raised concerns about the growing amount of generative artificial intelligence in Spotify's playlists and on the service writ large.
Spotify has routinely pushed back against allegations of creating "fake artists" for the sake of listing their music on playlists. With regard to PFC, they have cited user demand for background music and have denied their intention to scale up anonymously created tracks to supplant independent musicians. Regarding the increased appearance of artificial intelligence content on Spotify, the company does not yet have a policy regarding the practice of artificially generating music but has, in the past, acted against AI-generated tracks.