Title: Goodreads Choice Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goodreads_Choice_Awards
Summary: The Goodreads Choice Awards is a yearly award program, first launched on Goodreads in 2009.
Winners are determined by users voting on books that Goodreads has nominated or books of their choosing, released in the given year. Most books that Goodreads nominates are from verified Goodreads authors.  The final voting round collects the top 10 books from 20 different categories.

Title: Robert Jackson Bennett
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Jackson_Bennett
Summary: Robert Jackson Bennett (born June 22, 1984) is an American writer of speculative fiction. His fantasy novel The Tainted Cup won the 2025 Hugo Award for Best Novel and the World Fantasy Award for Best Novel.

Title: R. F. Kuang
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/R._F._Kuang
Summary: Rebecca F. Kuang (Chinese: 匡灵秀; pinyin: Kuāng Língxiù; born May 29, 1996), writing as R. F. Kuang, is an American novelist and short-story writer. She is known for her fantasy novels, which include The Poppy War trilogy and her novel Babel, or the Necessity of Violence (2022), which placed first on The New York Times Best Seller list and won the 2022 Nebula Award for Best Novel. She is currently the  inaugural Millard Distinguished Writer in Residence at the College of the Holy Cross.

Title: Alix E. Harrow
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alix_E._Harrow
Summary: Alix E. Harrow (born November 9, 1989) is an American science fiction and fantasy writer. Her short fiction work "A Witch's Guide to Escape: A Practical Compendium of Portal Fantasies" has been nominated for the Nebula Award, World Fantasy Award, and Locus Award, and in 2019 won a Hugo Award. Her debut novel, The Ten Thousand Doors of January (2019), was widely acclaimed by mainstream critics, lauded by general audiences during voting at Goodreads Choice Awards and Locus Awards, and nominated for multiple first novel literary awards and speculative fiction awards. She has also published under the name Alix Heintzman.

Title: The Inheritance Games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Inheritance_Games
Summary: The Inheritance Games is a young adult novel series by author Jennifer Lynn Barnes, published by Little, Brown Books for Young Readers. The series focuses on a teenaged girl, Avery Kylie Grambs, and the Hawthorne family. It has garnered widespread acclaim for its intricate plot, twists, and engaging characters, making it a favorite among young adult readers. It currently consists of three main books: The Inheritance Games (2020), The Hawthorne Legacy (2021), The Final Gambit (2022). Also connected to the series are a standalone book that follows the events of the main series, The Brothers Hawthorne (2023), and a short story and novella collection, Games Untold: An Inheritance Games Collection (2024). A spinoff series, The Grandest Game, currently features two books: The Grandest Game (2024) and Glorious Rivals (2025).
In The Inheritance Games, it is revealed that Avery has been chosen to inherit the fortune of deceased billionaire Tobias Hawthorne, whom she has never met or heard of. The series follows her efforts, along with those of the Hawthorne family, to uncover the truth of her inheritance.