Title: UEFA European Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_European_Championship
Summary: %5B%5BWikipedia%3ATemplates+for+discussion%2FLog%2F2025+December+5%23Template%3ASeason+sidebar%5D%5D{{{CRITERION}}}
The UEFA European Football Championship, less formally the European Championship and informally the Euro or Euros, is the primary association football tournament organised by UEFA. The competition is contested by members' senior men's national teams, determining the continental champion of Europe. It is the second-most watched football tournament in the world after the FIFA World Cup. It was originally called the European Nations' Cup before changing to its current name in 1968. 
The competition has generally been held every four years, scheduled to be in the even-numbered year between FIFA World Cup tournaments. It is staggered on an alternating two-year cycle with the UEFA Nations League. Before entering the tournament, all teams other than the host nations (which qualify automatically) compete in a qualifying process. From the 2020 edition onwards, the winner plays the Copa América champion in the Finalissima.
The seventeen European Championship tournaments have been won by ten national teams: Spain has won four titles; Germany has won three; Italy and France have won two titles; and the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, the Netherlands, Denmark, Greece, and Portugal have won one title each. To date, Spain is the only team to have won consecutive titles, doing so in 2008 and 2012.

Title: UEFA Euro 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Euro_2024
Summary: The 2024 UEFA European Football Championship, commonly referred to as UEFA Euro 2024 or simply Euro 2024, was the 17th UEFA European Championship, the quadrennial international football championship organised by UEFA for the European men's national teams of their member associations. Germany hosted the tournament, which took place from 14 June to 14 July 2024. The tournament involved 24 teams. 
It was the third time that European Championship matches were played on German territory and the second time in reunified Germany, as West Germany hosted the 1988 tournament, and four matches of the multi-national Euro 2020 were played in Munich. It was the first time the competition was held in what was formerly East Germany, with Leipzig as a host city, as well as the first major tournament since the 2006 FIFA World Cup that Germany served as a solo host nation. The tournament returned to its usual four-year cycle after the 2020 edition was postponed to 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Georgia made their tournament debut. Italy were the defending champion, having won the 2020 final against England on penalties, but failed to defend the title after being eliminated by Switzerland in the round of 16. Host nation Germany were eliminated by Spain in the quarter-finals; Spain went on to win the tournament for a record fourth time after defeating England 2–1 in the final.

Title: UEFA Euro 2028
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Euro_2028
Summary: The 2028 UEFA European Football Championship, commonly referred to as UEFA Euro 2028 or simply Euro 2028, will be the 18th UEFA European Championship, the quadrennial international football championship for European teams. It will be co-hosted by England, Scotland, Wales, and the Republic of Ireland, and it will take place from 9 June to 9 July 2028.
Spain are the defending champions after winning the 2024 final against England, one of the upcoming hosts.

Title: UEFA Conference League
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Conference_League
Summary: The UEFA Conference League (UECL), known simply as the Conference League, is an annual football competition organised since 2021 by the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) for eligible European clubs. It is the third-tier competition of European club football, ranking below the second-tier UEFA Europa League, and the first-tier UEFA Champions League.
The competition was intended as the lowest level of the UEFA Europa League and named the UEFA Europa League 2 as a working title. It was then renamed to the UEFA Europa Conference League, before its current name was adopted. Teams from lower-ranked UEFA member associations primarily contest the competition. From the 2024–25 season, the competition was rebranded to the UEFA Conference League, and the group stage was replaced with an expanded league phase of 36 teams. No teams qualify directly for the league phase; instead, the teams eliminated in the Europa League play-off round qualify, with the rest coming from the Conference League qualifying and play-off rounds. 
The winner of the competition qualifies for the following season's UEFA Europa League league phase, unless qualified for the Champions League via their domestic league position. In that case, the Conference League champion has the right to choose the competition. English clubs have the most wins, with three, followed by Italy and Greece with one each. Roma were the inaugural winners of the competition, having beaten Feyenoord 1–0 in the 2022 final. The current title holders are Crystal Palace, who defeated Rayo Vallecano 1–0 in the 2026 final.

Title: UEFA Euro 2024 squads
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Euro_2024_squads
Summary: UEFA Euro 2024 was an international football tournament held in Germany that took place from 14 June to 14 July 2024. The 24 national teams involved in the tournament were required to register a squad of 23 to 26 players – of which three had to be goalkeepers – by 7 June 2024, 23:59 CEST (UTC+2), seven days prior to the opening match of the tournament. Only players in these squads were eligible to take part in the tournament. IInitially, regulations required teams to consist of 23 players, but this was amended by UEFA Executive Committee on 3 May 2024.
In the event that a player on the submitted squad list suffered from an injury or illness prior to his team's first match of the tournament, that player could be replaced, provided that the team doctor and a doctor from the UEFA Medical Committee both confirmed that the injury or illness was severe enough to prevent the player from participating in the tournament. If a goalkeeper had suffered from an injury or illness after his team's first tournament match, he could still be replaced, even if the other goalkeepers from the squad were still available. A player who had been replaced on the player list could not be readmitted to the list.
The position listed for each player is per the official squad lists published by UEFA. The age listed for each player is their age as of 14 June 2024, the first day of the tournament. The numbers of caps and goals listed for them do not include any matches played after the start of the tournament. The club listed is the club for which the player last played a competitive match prior to the tournament. The nationality for each club reflects the national association (not the league) to which the club is affiliated. A flag is included for coaches who are of a different nationality to their team.