Title: San Juan, Puerto Rico
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San_Juan,_Puerto_Rico
Summary: San Juan ( san WHAHN, Spanish: [saŋ ˈxwan]; Spanish for "Saint John") is the capital city and most populous municipality in Puerto Rico, an unincorporated territory, and insular area of the United States. San Juan was founded by Spanish colonists in 1521, who called it Ciudad de Puerto Rico (Spanish for "Rich Port City").
Puerto Rico's capital is the second oldest European-established capital city in the Americas, after Santo Domingo, in the Dominican Republic, founded in 1496, and is the oldest European-established city under United States sovereignty. Several historical buildings are located in the historic district of Old San Juan; among the most notable are the city's former defensive walls, Fort San Felipe del Morro and Fort San Cristóbal, and La Fortaleza, the oldest executive mansion in continuous use in the Americas. These historic sites were declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1983.
Today, San Juan is Puerto Rico's most important seaport and is one of the island's most notable financial, cultural, and tourism centers. The population of the metropolitan statistical area, including San Juan and the municipalities of Bayamón, Guaynabo, Cataño, Canóvanas, Caguas, Toa Alta, Toa Baja, Carolina and Trujillo Alto, is about 2.443 million inhabitants; thus, about 76% of the population of Puerto Rico now lives and works in this area. San Juan is also a principal city of the San Juan-Caguas-Fajardo Combined Statistical Area. The city has been the host of events within the sports community, including the 1979 Pan American Games; 1966 Central American and Caribbean Games; events of the 2006, 2009, 2013 and 2026 World Baseball Classics; and the Caribbean Series, the Special Olympics and MLB San Juan Series in 2010.
San Juan is widely recognized as one of the global capitals of salsa. The city has been the epicenter for the development, production, and international expansion of the genre, hosting historic institutions like El Gran Combo de Puerto Rico (known as the "University of Salsa") and serving as the functional home of the World Salsa Congress since the late 1990s.  San Juan is also recognized as the epicenter of reggaeton's global development. From its origins as underground music in the 1990s, the city served as the place where the genre was born by blending hip-hop with local urban beats and tropical expressions. Today, the genre continues to evolve within the island.

Title: Arecibo, Puerto Rico
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arecibo,_Puerto_Rico
Summary: Arecibo (; Spanish pronunciation: [aɾeˈsiβo]) is a city and municipality on the northern coast of Puerto Rico, on the shores of the Atlantic Ocean, located north of Utuado and Ciales; east of Hatillo; and west of Barceloneta and Florida. It is about 50 miles (80 km) west of San Juan, the capital city. Arecibo is the largest municipality in Puerto Rico by area, and it is the core city of the Arecibo Metropolitan Statistical Area and part of the greater San Juan–Bayamón, PR Combined Statistical Area. It is spread over 18 barrios and Arecibo Pueblo (the downtown area and the administrative center of the city). Its population in 2020 was 87,754.
The Arecibo Observatory, which housed the Arecibo Telescope, the world's largest radio telescope until July 2016, is located in the municipality. The Arecibo telescope collapsed on December 1, 2020. Arecibo is the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Arecibo.

Title: Puerto Rico Highway 22
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Puerto_Rico_Highway_22
Summary: Puerto Rico Highway 22 (PR-22), also part of unsigned Interstate PR2, is an 84.3 km (52.4 mi) long toll road on the north coast of Puerto Rico that connects the cities of San Juan and Hatillo. The road is also known as the José de Diego Expressway (Spanish: Expreso José de Diego), and is part of unsigned Interstate PR-2.  It is a 4-lane road for much of its length, but expands to up to 12 lanes in the San Juan metro area.  The road is frequently congested, in particular during rush hour due to heavy commuter traffic.

Title: Northbridge University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northbridge_University
Summary: Northbridge University (formerly NUC University) is the largest for-profit private university in Puerto Rico with its main campus in Bayamón, Puerto Rico. The university was founded in 1982 as the National College, and offers undergraduate studies and graduate studies in health, business administration, education, information technology, and criminal justice.

Northbridge University is accredited by the Council of Higher Education of Puerto Rico and the Middle States Commission on Higher Education.

Title: List of hospitals in Puerto Rico
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_hospitals_in_Puerto_Rico
Summary: The following is a list of hospitals in Puerto Rico.