Title: Lincolnshire, Illinois
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lincolnshire,_Illinois
Summary: Lincolnshire is a village in Lake County, Illinois, United States. It is a northern suburb of Chicago. Per the 2020 census, the population was 7,940. Named after Lincolnshire, England, the village was incorporated on August 5, 1957, from the unincorporated Half Day area when land was purchased to build a residential subdivision. The community underwent an aggressive era of expansion from 1983 through the 1990s. The Des Plaines River bisects the village, passing from north to south; Illinois Route 22 also divides the village into two parts, crossing the village from east to west.
Camping World, Quill Corporation, Sysmex America and Zebra Technologies are headquartered in Lincolnshire. The village is home to the public Adlai E. Stevenson High School as part of Lincolnshire-Prairie View School District 103. It is also home to Lincolnshire Commons, an upscale lifestyle center. The village maintains a police department and public works system; it retrieves water from the city of Highland Park, which derives its water from adjacent Lake Michigan. The village has a council–manager government and is a home-rule municipality. The mayor of Lincolnshire is Elizabeth Brandt as of 2024.

Title: Stevenson High School (Lincolnshire, Illinois)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stevenson_High_School_(Lincolnshire,_Illinois)
Summary: Adlai E. Stevenson High School (AESHS), commonly called Stevenson High School (SHS), is a four-year public high school in Lincolnshire, Illinois, United States. It is named after Adlai Stevenson II, the 31st governor of Illinois.

Title: NFL International Series
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NFL_International_Series
Summary: The NFL International Series is a series of American football games during the National Football League (NFL) regular season that are played outside the United States. The series has held games in the United Kingdom (in place since 2007), Australia, Brazil, Germany, Ireland, and Spain, as well as an upcoming game in France. Between 2016 and 2022, the series also intermittently included games played in Mexico, though the league will return in 2026.
Wembley Stadium in London was the exclusive home stadium for International Series games from 2007 to 2015 and continued to host NFL games through 2019 and again since 2022. The series expanded to more stadiums, first to Twickenham Stadium in London and Estadio Azteca in Mexico City in 2016, and eventually to Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in London in 2019. Other sites that have hosted games include three locations in Germany: Allianz Arena in Munich (2022 and 2024), Deutsche Bank Park in Frankfurt (2023), and Olympiastadion in Berlin (2025); Arena Corinthians in São Paulo, Brazil (2024 and 2025), the Bernabéu in Madrid, Spain (2025), and Croke Park in Dublin, Ireland (2025). Maracanã Stadium in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, is set to host three games over the next five years, beginning in 2026. Melbourne Cricket Ground in Melbourne, Australia, and Stade de France in Paris, France, will also host games in 2026.

Title: Potential London NFL franchise
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Potential_London_NFL_franchise
Summary: A potential London NFL franchise is a hypothetical National Football League (NFL) American football team based in London, formed as a new expansion team or by relocating one of the existing 32 NFL teams currently based in the United States. Should the league establish a team in London, it would become the first of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada to establish a franchise outside either of those two countries.
A London NFL franchise would be intended to grow the league's revenues and provide further access to the British and European markets. However, the agreement of league owners is needed to undertake an expansion or relocation, and a London franchise would face financial, legal and logistical challenges. Possible home stadiums for the London team include one or more of Wembley Stadium, Twickenham Stadium or Tottenham Hotspur Stadium.
Since 2007, the league has held multiple regular season games in London each season as part of the NFL International Series, allowing the league to test solutions to some of the challenges facing a hypothetical London franchise.

Title: Aidan O'Connell
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aidan_O%27Connell
Summary: Aidan James O'Connell (born September 1, 1998) is an American professional football  quarterback for the Las Vegas Raiders of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for the Purdue Boilermakers and was selected by the Raiders in the fourth round of the 2023 NFL draft.