Title: List of highest-grossing films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_films
Summary: Films generate income from several revenue streams, including theatrical exhibition, home video, television broadcast rights, and merchandising. However, theatrical box-office earnings are the primary metric for trade publications in assessing the success of a film, mostly because of the availability of the data compared to sales figures for home video and broadcast rights, but also because of historical practice. Included on the list are charts of the top box-office earners (ranked by both the nominal and real value of their revenue), a chart of high-grossing films by calendar year, a timeline showing the transition of the highest-grossing film record, and a chart of the highest-grossing film franchises and series. All charts are ranked by international theatrical box-office performance where possible, excluding income derived from home video, broadcasting rights, and merchandise.
Traditionally, war films, musicals, and historical dramas have been the most popular genres, but franchise films have been among the best performers of the 21st century. There is strong interest in the superhero genre, with eleven films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe featuring among the nominal top-earners. The most successful superhero film, Avengers: Endgame, is also the second-highest-grossing film on the nominal earnings chart, and there are four films in total based on the Avengers comic books charting in the top twenty-five. Other Marvel Comics adaptations have also had success with the Spider-Man and X-Men properties, while films based on Batman and Superman from DC Comics have generally performed well. Beyond the superhero genre, Star Wars, with four films, is the most represented franchise in the nominal earnings chart. Although the nominal earnings chart is dominated by films adapted from pre-existing properties and sequels, it is headed by Avatar, which is an original work. Animated family films have performed consistently well, with Disney films enjoying lucrative re-releases prior to the home-video era. Disney also enjoyed later success with films such as Frozen and its sequel, Zootopia and its sequel, and The Lion King (along with its computer-animated remake), as well as its Pixar division, of which Inside Out 2, Incredibles 2, and Toy Story 3, 4 and 5 have been the best performers. Beyond Disney and Pixar animation, China's Ne Zha 2 (the highest-grossing animated film), and the Despicable Me and Shrek series have met with the most success.
While inflation has eroded the achievements of most films from the 1960s and 1970s, there are franchises originating from that period that are still active. Besides the Star Wars franchise, James Bond films are still being released periodically; both are among the highest-grossing franchises. Some of the older films that held the record of highest-grossing film still have respectable grosses by today's standards, but no longer compete numerically against today's top-earners in an era of much higher individual ticket prices. When those prices are adjusted for inflation, however, then Gone with the Wind—which was the highest-grossing film outright for twenty-five years—is still the highest-grossing film of all time. All grosses on the list are expressed in U.S. dollars at their nominal value, except where stated otherwise.

Title: Illumination (company)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illumination_(company)
Summary: Illumination (formerly known as Illumination Entertainment) is an American animation studio founded by producer Chris Meledandri in 2007. It has an "exclusive financing and distribution partnership" with Universal Pictures (which itself is a division of Comcast through the Universal Filmed Entertainment Group, a unit of NBCUniversal) wherein Illumination produces the films as an independent contractor and Universal finances and distributes them.
The studio is best known for creating the Despicable Me, The Secret Life of Pets and Sing franchises, as well as the adaptations of Dr. Seuss' books The Lorax and How the Grinch Stole Christmas! and Nintendo video games, including The Super Mario Bros. Movie and The Super Mario Galaxy Movie. The Minions, characters from the Despicable Me series, are the mascots of the studio.
Illumination has produced 17 feature films, with an average gross of $651 million per film. Its first film, Despicable Me, was released on July 9, 2010, and its latest film, Minions & Monsters, was released on July 1, 2026; their upcoming slate of films include  Not Alone on April 16, 2027, and an untitled Illumination / Nintendo film on April 12, 2028. Two of the studio's films—Minions (2015) and The Super Mario Bros. Movie (2023)—are among the 50 highest-grossing films of all time, with the latter having the highest-grossing opening for an animated film in its initial release; eight of their films are also among the 50 highest-grossing animated films.

Title: Neon (company)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neon_(company)
Summary: Neon Rated, LLC, doing business as Neon (stylized in all caps), is an American independent film production and distribution company founded in 2017 by CEO Tom Quinn and Tim League, who also was the co-founder of the Alamo Drafthouse Cinema chain. As of 2019, League is no longer involved with daily operations for the company.
Its first film, Colossal, was released in 2017. The company became known for distributing such notable films as I, Tonya (2017), Parasite (2019), Portrait of a Lady on Fire (2019), Palm Springs (2020), Flee (2021), Spencer (2021), The Worst Person in the World (2021), Triangle of Sadness (2022), Anatomy of a Fall (2023), Anora (2024), Longlegs (2024), The Seed of the Sacred Fig (2024), and The Monkey (2025).
Parasite went on to become Neon's highest-grossing film at the box office with $53 million and the first non-English-language film to win the Academy Award for Best Picture. In 2024, Longlegs had a domestic box office gross of $74.3 million, becoming the distributor's highest-grossing film ever in North America. Anora became the company's second film to win the Academy Award for Best Picture. Neon has also worked with several high-profile filmmakers, which includes Sean Baker, Bong Joon Ho, Julia Ducournau, Craig Gillespie, Pablo Larraín, and Céline Sciamma.

Title: Amaran (2024 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amaran_(2024_film)
Summary: Amaran (transl. The Immortal) is a 2024 Indian Tamil biographical action war film written and directed by Rajkumar Periasamy and produced by Raaj Kamal Films International, together with Turmeric Media and Sony Pictures Films India. The film stars Sivakarthikeyan as Major Mukund Varadarajan and Sai Pallavi as Mukund's wife Indhu Rebecca Varghese. It is an adaptation of the book India's Most Fearless: True Stories of Modern Military Heroes by Shiv Aroor and Rahul Singh, which consists of a chapter on Mukund. The film follows Indhu, who is on her way to receive the Ashoka Chakra award on behalf of her late husband Mukund, remembering his life and career.
The film was officially announced in January 2022 under the tentative title Sivakarthikeyan 21, as it was Sivakarthikeyan's 21st film as a lead actor. The official title was announced in February 2024. Principal photography commenced in May 2023 with the first schedule at Jammu and Kashmir, which continued for 75 days over the next three months. The subsequent portions of the movie were shot in Chennai and Pondicherry, and the shooting was wrapped after a year in May 2024. The music for the film was composed by G. V. Prakash Kumar, cinematography was handled by CH Sai and editing was done by R. Kalaivanan.
The film was released in theatres worldwide on 31 October 2024 coinciding with Diwali. It received positive reviews from critics, who praised cast performances, direction, screenplay, and music and set several box office records, emerging as the second highest-grossing Tamil film of 2024, seventh highest-grossing Indian film of 2024, eight highest-grossing Tamil film of all time and the fourth highest-grossing film in Tamil Nadu. Amaran achieved the highest online tickets ever sold Tamil film in the year 2024.
The film won 3 awards at the 72nd National Film Awards, including Rajkumar Periasamy as Best Director, GV Prakash as Best Music Direction and R Kalaivannan as Best Editor

Title: Scary Movie (2026 film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scary_Movie_(2026_film)
Summary: Scary Movie (also known as Scary Movie 6) is a 2026 American parody film directed by Michael Tiddes and written by Marlon Wayans, Shawn Wayans, Keenen Ivory Wayans, Craig Wayans, and Rick Alvarez. It is the sixth installment in the Scary Movie film series and has been referred to as the spiritual sequel to the first two films. It stars Marlon, Shawn, Anna Faris, and Regina Hall. The plot follows Cindy Campbell and her friends Ray Wilkins and siblings Shorty and Brenda Meeks reunited when the same masked killer from the original film Scary Movie resurfaces.
A sixth Scary Movie film was announced in 2024 and later that same year, it was revealed to have the involvement of the Wayans family for the first time since their departure from the franchise following the release of Scary Movie 2 (2001) due to creative conflicts with the original producers.
Scary Movie premiered on June 3, 2026, at the Paramount Theatre in Los Angeles, and was released theatrically in the United States by Paramount Pictures on June 5, 2026. Like its predecessors, it received generally negative reviews from critics, but was a commercial success, grossing $231.9 million against a $30 million budget, becoming the second-highest grossing film in the series after the first installment.