Title: List of Manchester City F.C. records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Manchester_City_F.C._records_and_statistics
Summary: This article lists various statistics related to Manchester City Football Club.

Title: List of Paris Saint-Germain FC records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Paris_Saint-Germain_FC_records_and_statistics
Summary: Paris Saint-Germain FC hold numerous records, most notably as the most successful French club in history in terms of major official titles, with 60. They hold the record in all domestic competitions, having won 14 Ligue 1 titles, 16 Coupe de France, nine Coupe de la Ligue, and 14 Trophée des Champions. Internationally, PSG have won two UEFA Champions League, two UEFA Super Cup, one UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, one UEFA Intertoto Cup, and one FIFA Intercontinental Cup. Their honours also include one Ligue 2 title, bringing their total number of official titles to 61. They have also secured several unofficial titles, including a record seven Tournoi de Paris, a record two Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy, and two International Champions Cup trophies.
PSG's victory in the 1995–96 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup made them the only French club to win that competition and one of only two French teams to have claimed a major European trophy. By winning the 2024–25 UEFA Champions League, together with the 2024–25 Ligue 1 and the 2024–25 Coupe de France, the club became the first French side to achieve a continental treble. Subsequent victories in the 2025 UEFA Super Cup and the 2025 FIFA Intercontinental Cup made PSG the first French club to win both trophies and delivered the first club world title in the history of French football. Having also won the 2024 Trophée des Champions, PSG completed an unprecedented sextuple, a feat previously achieved only by Barcelona in 2009 and Bayern Munich in 2020.
The Parisians hold the record for the most consecutive seasons in the French top flight, with 51 seasons in Ligue 1 since 1974–75. They are also the only club to have won the Ligue 1 title while leading the table from the first to the final matchday (2022–23), the Coupe de France without conceding a goal (1992–93 and 2016–17), five consecutive Coupe de la Ligue titles (2014–2018), four successive Coupe de France trophies (2015–2018), and eight consecutive Trophée des Champions titles (2013–2020).
Influential figures in the history of PSG include the club's most decorated president Nasser Al-Khelaifi, the most decorated manager Luis Enrique, record appearance holder Marquinhos, all-time top scorer Kylian Mbappé, assist leader Ángel Di María, clean-sheet record holder Bernard Lama, longest-serving captain Thiago Silva. Other notable players include Ballon d'Or winners Lionel Messi and Ousmane Dembélé, as well as world-record transfer signing Neymar.

Title: List of footballers with the most goals in a single game
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_footballers_with_the_most_goals_in_a_single_game
Summary: This is a list of players with the most goals in a football game. This list only includes players who have scored the most multiple goals in first class or fully professional matches for country or club. Players are listed by number of goals scored in an individual game. Players on equal goals are listed in chronological order.  The current world record for an international is held by Archie Thompson, who scored 13 goals against American Samoa in Australia's 31–0 victory during the 2002 FIFA World Cup qualification. David Zdrilic scored 8 goals.
In November 2022, Shokhan Nooraldin Salihi scored 15 goals in the match of Al-Hilal against Sama in the 2022–23 Saudi Women's Premier League. In this match, Al-Hilal beat Sama 18–0. She broke the previous record of Passang Tshering for most goals in any top-flight match with 14 each. In the most prolific European football leagues, the Premier League (and the Football League First Division before it), La Liga, Serie A and the Bundesliga, the top scorers per game have much lower tallies: seven in England and Spain and six in Italy and Germany. The last player in these leagues to score seven goals in a match was László Kubala in 1952 for Barcelona.

Title: List of world association football records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_world_association_football_records
Summary: This article features a list of men's professional FIFA records in association football, in any football league, cup, or other competition around the world, including professionals, semi-professionals, and amateurs unless otherwise stated. Friendly club matches are generally not eligible for the records. The article includes comprehensive statistics on official football leagues worldwide in general, without taking league rankings or coefficients into account. The statistics apply only to first teams, figures for reserve teams and youth teams are not included unless otherwise stated.
These records are divided based on whether they relate to players, coaches, clubs, or stadiums.

Title: Big Five (association football)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Five_(association_football)
Summary: The Big Five is a collective term in association football for five leading European men's club football leagues: England's Premier League, France's Ligue 1, Germany's Bundesliga, Italy's Serie A, and Spain's La Liga..
The Premier League in England is the most financially lucrative league; it generates billions in revenue annually and holds the largest worldwide audience. The Premier League is also known for being home to the "Big Six" teams. The Bundesliga in Germany is celebrated for its high attendance rates and fan engagement. La Liga in Spain is the home to the clubs FC Barcelona and Real Madrid, two of the largest clubs in the world with a combined 20 Champions Leagues between them. Italy's Serie A is known for its tactical sophistication. France's Ligue 1 is considered the smallest of the "Big Five", holding the smallest audience and financial standing of the five. It is most known for producing and enriching young talent, as well as its largest club, Paris Saint-Germain.