Title: List of Tour de France general classification winners
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Tour_de_France_general_classification_winners
Summary: The Tour de France is an annual road bicycle race held over 23 days in July. Established in 1903 by newspaper L'Auto, the Tour is the best-known and most prestigious of cycling's three "Grand Tours", the others being the Giro d'Italia and the Vuelta a España. The race usually covers approximately 3,500 kilometres (2,200 mi), passing through France and neighbouring countries. The race is broken into day-long stages, and individual finishing times for each stage are totalled to determine the overall winner at the end of the race. The course changes every year, but has finished in Paris every year except 2024, when it finished in Nice. Since 1975, it has finished along the Champs-Élysées.
The rider with the lowest aggregate time at the end of each day wears the yellow jersey, representing the leader of the general classification. There are other jerseys: the green jersey, worn by the leader of the points classification; the polka dot jersey, worn by the leader of the mountains classification; and the white jersey, worn by the leader of the young rider classification.
Sixty-four individual cyclists from 15 countries have won a combined total of 106 Tours, the most recent winner being Slovenian Tadej Pogačar. Pogačar, Jacques Anquetil, Eddy Merckx, Bernard Hinault and Miguel Induráin hold the record for the most victories at five each, with Induráin being the only one to win five consecutive Tours. Winners have ranged in age from 19 (Henri Cornet, 1904) to 36 years (Firmin Lambot, 1922). The most common nationality among winners is French (36 Tours won by 21 cyclists), followed by Belgian (18 Tours won by 10 cyclists) and Spanish (12 Tours won by 7 cyclists).

Title: 2024 Tour de France
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Tour_de_France
Summary: The 2024 Tour de France was the 111th edition of the Tour de France. It started in Florence, Italy, on 29 June, and finished in Nice, France, on 21 July. The race did not finish in (or near) Paris for the first time since its inception, owing to preparations for the 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris.
Tadej Pogačar won the general classification, his third victory after 2020 and 2021 and a return to the top spot after placing second in 2022 and 2023. Pogačar won six stages, including the last three. Second and third place were taken by Jonas Vingegaard (Visma–Lease a Bike) and tour debutant Remco Evenepoel (Soudal–Quick-Step). Pogačar's team, UAE Team Emirates, won the team classification.
The race began with three stages in Italy before entering France. The first two stages were won by French riders. Romain Bardet narrowly won the opening stage from a breakaway with teammate Frank van den Broek, five seconds ahead of the peloton, to earn the first yellow jersey. Kévin Vauquelin won the second stage, but Pogačar claimed the race lead. In Stage 3, Pogačar relinquished the race lead to Richard Carapaz, but then won Stage 4, from Pinerolo (Italy) to Valloire, to regain it. He remained in yellow all the way to the finish in Nice, winning five more stages along the way, including the final time trial. Sprinters Biniam Girmay and Jasper Philipsen won three stages each. Pogačar, who finished 6 minutes and 17 seconds ahead of two-time winner Vingegaard, became the first rider to win both the Tour de France and Giro d'Italia in the same year since Marco Pantani in 1998.
Girmay won the points classification; Carapaz won the mountains classification and the overall combativity award; and Evenepoel won the young rider classification. Mark Cavendish won the 5th stage, his 35th stage victory at the Tour de France, breaking the record of 34 stage wins held by Eddy Merckx since 1975. In recognition of both this record and his long and popular career in the Tour a special presentation was made to Mark Cavendish on the final podium, a framed black cycling jersey bearing the Tour de France logo and the letters "CAXXXV" (XXXV being Roman numerals for 35).

Title: 2024 Tour de France Femmes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Tour_de_France_Femmes
Summary: The 2024 Tour de France Femmes (officially 2024 Tour de France Femmes Avec Zwift) was the third edition of the Tour de France Femmes. The race took place from 12 to 18 August and was the 22nd event of the 2024 UCI Women's World Tour calendar. The race was organised by the Amaury Sport Organization (ASO), which also organises the men's Tour de France.
The race was won by Polish rider Katarzyna Niewiadoma (Canyon//SRAM), beating defending champion Demi Vollering (Team SD Worx–Protime) by just four seconds. As well as taking second place, Vollering took the super-combativity award for the most combative rider. Pauliena Rooijakkers (Fenix–Deceuninck) took third place overall after her strong performance on the final stage.
In the race's other classifications, Marianne Vos (Visma–Lease a Bike) won the green jersey of the points classification for the second time. Justine Ghekiere (AG Insurance–Soudal) took the polka-dot jersey as the winner of the mountains classification. Puck Pieterse (Fenix–Deceuninck) took the white jersey as the winner of the young riders classification, which was awarded to the best-placed rider under the age of 23. Lidl–Trek won the team classification as the team with the lowest aggregate time among their three best-placed riders.
Overall, the race was praised by the public, media, teams and riders. Cycling Weekly noted that the "razor-thin" margin of victory demonstrated the "extraordinary level of competition in women's cycling and the depth of talent in the field," while Le Parisien considered that the race had "offered itself some guarantees for the future".

Title: 2025 Tour de France
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_Tour_de_France
Summary: The 2025 Tour de France was the 112th edition of the Tour de France. It started in Lille on 5 July, and finished with the final stage at Champs-Élysées, Paris, on 27 July.
Tadej Pogačar of UAE Team Emirates XRG won the general classification, marking his fourth victory in the race in the past six editions. His advantage began to grow after winning the fourth stage to Rouen and placing second in the first individual time trial. After winning the seventh stage to Mûr-de-Bretagne, Pogačar solidified his advantage in the Pyrenees, dominating the first mountain stage to Hautacam and the mountain time trial to Peyragudes the following day. He held off attacks from other general classification (GC) contenders in the final week to win the race by almost four and a half minutes. Second place overall went to Jonas Vingegaard of Visma–Lease a Bike. He was consistently the second-best climber in the race but he lost a total of more than three minutes to Pogačar in the first individual time trial and the mountain stage to Hautacam. The last step on the podium was occupied by Florian Lipowitz of Red Bull–Bora–Hansgrohe. He gradually built his advantage over fourth place in the first two weeks before holding off the challenge of Oscar Onley of Team Picnic–PostNL in the final week. Lipowitz became the first German to finish on the podium of the Tour since Andreas Klöden in 2006.
The points classification was won by Jonathan Milan of Lidl–Trek. He won two sprint stages while also placing consistently in the intermediate sprints. In addition to placing third in the GC, Lipowitz also took the white jersey as the best rider under the age of 26 while the mountains classification went to Pogačar in addition to winning the general classification. The teams classification was won by Visma–Lease a Bike. The award for the race's most combative rider went to Ben Healy of EF Education–EasyPost, who won a hilly stage during the first week, and wore the yellow jersey for two days before placing ninth overall.

Title: 2026 Tour de France
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Tour_de_France
Summary: The 2026 Tour de France was the 113th edition of the Tour de France. The race began with a stage in Barcelona, Spain, on 4 July, and finished with the final stage at the Champs-Élysées, Paris, on 26 July.
Tadej Pogačar of UAE Team Emirates XRG won the general classification for the fifth time, and the third year running. His attack on stage 6, at the Col du Tourmalet in the Pyrenees, established a lead over his main rival Jonas Vingegaard of Visma–Lease a Bike. Pogačar extended his lead with victories on three mountain stages: stage 10 in the Massif Central, stage 14 in Vosges, and stage 19 to Alpe d'Huez in the French Alps. Pogačar's final margin of victory was almost six and a half minutes. It was the fastest race on record, with Pogačar having an average speed of 43.227 kilometres per hour (26.860 mph) over the three weeks of racing.
Second place overall went to Remco Evenepoel of Red Bull–Bora–Hansgrohe, after Vingegaard withdrew from the race following a crash on stage 15. Evenepoel took his first mountain stage victory at Plateau de Solaison on stage 15 and then won the individual time trial to Thonon-les-Bains in stage 16. Third place went to Isaac del Toro, a Tour debutant. On stage 20, Pogačar assisted his teammate Del Toro, to ensure that Del Toro held off fellow Tour debutant Paul Seixas of Decathlon CMA CGM for third place overall and the young rider classification as the best rider under the age of 26.
The race was affected by a heatwave, with two stages shortened and rules relaxed to allow for riders to stay hydrated. Prior to stage 15, both Pogačar and Vingegaard were woken in the middle of the night to take doping tests, which generated substantial debate.
The points classification was won by Mads Pedersen of Lidl–Trek. Pedersen won only one stage (stage 4), but consistently placed highly in the intermediate sprints and secured points in other sprint finishes. The mountains classification went to Richard Carapaz of EF Education–EasyPost, who won two mountain stages in the French Alps in the last week. Carapaz also won the award for the race's most combative rider. The teams classification was won by Lidl–Trek.