Title: Purdue University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purdue_University
Summary: Purdue University is a public land-grant research university in the U.S state of Indiana with its main campus in West Lafayette, Indiana, and an urban campus in Indianapolis, Indiana. The university was founded in 1869 after Lafayette businessman John Purdue donated land and money to establish a college of science, technology, and agriculture; the first classes were held on September 16, 1874. Purdue's West Lafayette campus remains the flagship campus of the Purdue University system, while Purdue University in Indianapolis was launched on July 1, 2024. 
Purdue University is a member of the Association of American Universities and is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity". Purdue enrolls the largest student body of any individual university campus in Indiana, as well as the ninth-largest foreign student population of any university in the United States. The university is home to the world's oldest computer science degree-granting department and the first university-owned airport in the United States.
Purdue is the founding member of the Big Ten Conference and sponsors 18 intercollegiate sports teams. It has been affiliated with 13 Nobel laureates, 1 Turing Award laureate, 1 Bharat Ratna recipient, 27 astronauts, 2 World Food Prize laureates, 3 Pulitzer Prize winners, 18 Olympic medalists, 3 National Medal of Technology and Innovation recipients, 2 National Medal of Science recipients, 3 Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, 7 members of Congress, 3 U.S. governors, and 2 heads of state.

Title: University of Washington
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Washington
Summary: The University of Washington (UW, and informally U-Dub or U Dub) is a public research university in Seattle, Washington, United States. Founded in 1861, it is one of the oldest universities on the West Coast of the United States.
The university has a 700-acre (2.8 km2) main campus in the city's University District, with satellite campuses in nearby cities of Tacoma and Bothell. Overall, UW encompasses more than 500 buildings and over 20 million gross square footage of space, including one of the largest library systems in the world with more than 26 university libraries, art centers, museums, laboratories, lecture halls, and stadiums.
Washington is the flagship institution of the state's six public universities. Known for its medical, engineering, and scientific research, Washington is a member of the Association of American Universities. According to the National Science Foundation, UW spent $1.73 billion on research and development in 2024, ranking it fifth in the nation. Its 22 varsity sports teams compete as the Huskies in the Big Ten Conference of NCAA Division I.

Title: List of University of Washington people
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_University_of_Washington_people
Summary: This page lists notable students, alumni and faculty members of the University of Washington.

Title: Raymond Schinazi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raymond_Schinazi
Summary: Raymond F. Schinazi (born 21 March 1950) is an Egyptian-born organic medicinal chemist. He is the Frances Winship Walters Professor of Pediatrics at Emory University. He has expertise in antiviral agents, pharmacology, and biotechnology. His research focuses on developing treatments for infections caused by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B (HBV), hepatitis C (HCV), herpes, dengue fever, zika, chikungunya, and other emerging viruses. These treatment options include antiviral agents as well as synthetic, biochemical, pharmacological and molecular genetic approaches, including molecular modeling and gene therapy.

Title: Anand Reddi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anand_Reddi
Summary: Anand Reddi is a global health policy expert, public health advocate and biopharma executive. Reddi works on health system strengthening initiatives with a focus on global health, implementation science, health financing and public health advocacy.  A major focus of scholarship is  global HIV scale-up including the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). Since 2014, his focus has shifted to public-private global health partnerships to support access to essential medicines between by the biopharma private sector. He served on the board of directors of the AIDS Healthcare Foundation from 2009 to 2011 and was a founding member of the board of directors of the Bay Area Global Health Alliance.