Title: Seoul Foreign School
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul_Foreign_School
Summary: Seoul Foreign School (Korean: 서울외국인학교) is a Pre-K/Reception to Grade 12 international school located in Seoul, South Korea. The school was founded in 1913 by Christian missionaries to Korea and emphasizes Christian values. The Elementary, Middle and High Schools offer an international curriculum within the International Baccalaureate framework of PYP, MYP and DP. The High School offers the IB Diploma Programme. The British School offers the English National Curriculum - Key Stages 1–3. Seoul Foreign School has been located in Yeonhui-dong, Seodaemun-gu, since 2026.
Seoul Foreign School is accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC) and the (CIS)

Title: Park Seo-bo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Seo-bo
Summary: Park Seo-bo (Korean: 박서보; 15 November 1931 – 14 October 2023) was a South Korean painter known for his "Écriture" series (1967 onwards), involvement in the Korean Art Informel movement, and particular formal concerns around painting that have led critics and art historians to identify him as a leading Dansaekhwa artist.
Park was part of the first generation of artists to begin building their careers in the wake of the Korean War after growing up under Japanese colonial rule, having their study interrupted by the outbreak of the Korean War, and surviving the conflict. Much of Park's early work emerged in response to his own experiences at the time.
After graduating from Hongik University, Park was very much on the social and art world periphery as both a draft dodger hiding under a new name (changed from Park Jae-hong), and ardent critic of the National Art Exhibition (Kukjeon for short). Park joined the Contemporary Artists Association (Hyeondae Misul Hyeohoe) in 1957, and became one of the main figures in the Korean Art Informel movement along with others in the association. Park sought to conceptually and materially challenge assumptions around painting at the time through his abstract paintings that experimented with texture, color, material, line, and shape. The main focus of his practice for over his last half century was exploring the formal possibilities for painting through an emphasis on process, and deemphasis on artistic intention in his "Écriture" series.
Increasing opportunities to write about foreign artists and travel abroad also compelled Park to take an active role advocating for the promotion of Korean contemporary art on a local and global scale. Park's mentorship of students at Hongik, curation of shows featuring emerging avant-garde artists, and work at the Korean Fine Arts Association (KFFA) played a crucial role in supporting generations of contemporary Korean artists. His work at the KFFA in particular was central to the development of Dansaekhwa.
After founding the Seo-bo Art and Cultural Foundation in 1994, Park passed on leadership to his son in 2014. He had his most recent retrospective at the National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art, Korea (MMCA) in 2019, and there are now two museums dedicated to his work. Park worked and lived in Yeonhui-dong, Seoul.

Title: Park Won-soon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Won-soon
Summary: Park Won-soon (Korean: 박원순; February 11, 1955 or March 26, 1956 – July 9, 2020) was a South Korean politician, lawyer and activist who served as the mayor of Seoul from 2011 until his death in 2020. A member of the Democratic Party of Korea, he was the longest-serving mayor of Seoul. He died by suicide in July 2020 following allegations of sexual harassment.
Prior to being elected as mayor, Park was a community and social justice activist, serving as a member of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. He wrote many books on transitional justice as international human rights lawyer and worked as the chief prosecutor for both North and South Korea for the first time in The Women's International War Crimes Tribunal on Japan's Military Sexual Slavery accusing the Showa Emperor. A noted political donor in Seoul, Park contributed to political organizations and think tanks that advocated for grassroots solutions towards social, educational, environmental, and political issues. As a mayor of Seoul, he was awarded for the first time in South Korea,  Gothenburg Award for Sustainable Development for 'sharing city' and Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize, Singapore for changing the city into an inclusive, socially stable and innovative city.
In July 2020, Park's former secretary accused him of four years of sexual harassment; Park died the next day, in an apparent suicide.

Title: Asan Institute for Policy Studies
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asan_Institute_for_Policy_Studies
Summary: The Asan Institute for Policy Studies (Korean: 아산정책연구원; Hanja: 峨山政策硏究院) is an independent, non-profit think tank based in Seoul, South Korea. The institute was founded by the honorary chairman Chung Mong-joon in 2008. The institute conducts research in national security and foreign policy, area studies, public opinion, domestic politics, social science methodology, and global governance.
In 2015, it was ranked one of the top 100 think tanks in the world by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. The Asan Institute was also ranked 5th among foreign policy and security-related research institutions in the Korea Economic Daily's annual survey of "Korea's Top 100 Think Tanks in 2016."
The Asan Report entitled 'In China's Shadow' was published in September 2016. The report garnered worldwide media attention, making headlines in the Wall Street Journal and New York Times, along with more than 200 Korean and international media outlets.

Title: Son Jong-won
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Son_Jong-won
Summary: Son Jong-won (Korean: 손종원; born March 19, 1984) is a South Korean chef known for leading L'Amant Secret and Eatanic Garden, two one-Michelin-starred restaurants in Seoul. He is a regular chef cast on Please Take Care of My Refrigerator and participated as a White Spoon competitor on Culinary Class Wars Season 2.