Title: Nikola Tesla
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nikola_Tesla
Summary: Nikola Tesla (10 July 1856 – 7 January 1943) was a Serbian-American engineer, futurist, and inventor. He is known for his contributions to the design of the modern alternating current (AC) electricity supply system.
Born and raised in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Tesla first studied engineering and physics in the 1870s without receiving a degree. He then gained practical experience in the early 1880s working in telephony and at Continental Edison in the new electric power industry. In 1884, he migrated to the United States, where he became a naturalized citizen. He worked for a short time at the Edison Machine Works in New York City before he struck out on his own. With the help of partners to finance and market his ideas, Tesla set up laboratories and companies in New York to develop a range of electrical and mechanical devices. His AC induction motor and related polyphase AC patents, licensed by Westinghouse Electric in 1888, earned him a considerable amount of money and became the cornerstone of the polyphase system, which Westinghouse marketed.
Tesla conducted a range of experiments with mechanical oscillators/generators, electrical discharge tubes, and early X-ray imaging among other things, in an attempt to develop inventions he could patent and market. He built a wirelessly controlled boat, one of the first wirelessly controlled vehicles ever produced. Tesla became well known as an inventor and demonstrated his achievements to celebrities and wealthy patrons at his lab. He was noted for his showmanship at public lectures. Throughout the 1890s, Tesla pursued his ideas for wireless lighting and worldwide wireless electric power distribution in his high-voltage, high-frequency power experiments in New York and Colorado Springs. In 1893, he made pronouncements on the possibility of wireless communication with his devices. Tesla tried to put these ideas to practical use in his unfinished Wardenclyffe Tower project, an intercontinental wireless communication and power transmitter, but ran out of funding before he could complete it.
After Wardenclyffe, Tesla experimented with a series of inventions in the 1910s and 1920s with varying degrees of success. Having spent most of his money, Tesla lived in a series of New York hotels, leaving behind unpaid bills. He died in New York City in January 1943. Tesla's work fell into relative obscurity following his death, until 1960, when the General Conference on Weights and Measures named the International System of Units (SI) measurement of magnetic flux density the tesla in his honor. There has been a resurgence in popular interest in Tesla since the 1990s. In 2013, Time magazine named him one of the 100 most significant figures of all time.

Title: Deepak Ahuja
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deepak_Ahuja
Summary: Deepak Prabhu Ahuja (born on January 1963) is an  Indian-American executive working in the life sciences industry who previously worked in the automotive manufacturing industry. He is best known for serving as the chief financial  officer of Tesla for eleven years.

Title: Robyn Denholm
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robyn_Denholm
Summary: Robyn M. Denholm (; née Sammut; born 27 May 1963) is an Australian business executive and former accountant who is chair of Tesla, Inc. In November 2018, Denholm was chosen by Elon Musk to succeed him as chair of Tesla. She previously served as chief financial officer of computer hardware manufacturer Juniper Networks and Australian telecommunications company Telstra. Prior to her appointment, she was relatively unknown in the United States. As of 2025, she had the highest remuneration of any public company chair in the United States.

Title: Stephen Scherr
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Scherr
Summary: Stephen M. Scherr  is an American business executive. He was the chief executive officer of Hertz and a member of its board of directors from February 2022 to March 2024. As of October 2024, he is co-President of Pretium Partners.

Title: Mira Murati
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mira_Murati
Summary: Ermira "Mira" Murati (born 16 December 1988) is an Albanian-American business executive. She is a co-founder and chief executive of Thinking Machines Lab, an artificial intelligence company she launched in February 2025. She served as chief technology officer of OpenAI from May 2022 to September 2024 and, for three days in November 2023, as the company's interim chief executive during the brief removal of Sam Altman. She previously worked as a product manager at Tesla and led product and engineering at Leap Motion.