Title: Yakuts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakuts
Summary: The Yakuts or Sakha (Yakut: саха, saxa; plural: сахалар, saxalar) are a Turkic ethnic group native to North Siberia, primarily the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) in the Russian Federation. They also inhabit some districts of the Krasnoyarsk Krai. They speak Yakut, which belongs to the Siberian branch of the Turkic languages.

Title: Flag of the Sakha Republic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_the_Sakha_Republic
Summary: The state flag of the Sakha Republic (Yakutia) in Russia is one of the official symbols of the Sakha Republic, alongside the coat of arms and the national anthem of the Sakha Republic. The flag has four horizontal stripes. From top to bottom, the stripes are light blue (3/4 of the flag's width), white (1/16), red (1/16), and green (1/8). The flag has been used officially as the flag of the Sakha Republic since 14 October 1992.  The light blue stripe is charged with a white disc in the center.  The diameter of the disc is 2/5 of the flag's width.
In the Soviet era and prior to the 1991 declaration of the Sakha Republic within the Russian Federation was the Yakut Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic. Prior to 1937, the Yakut ASSR used a flag with a blue canton containing the depiction of the Aurora and the name of the ASSR. After 1937, the flag of the Yakut ASSR was based on the flag of the Russian SFSR, modified with inscriptions.

Title: Yakutian horse
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakutian_horse
Summary: The Yakutian (Yakut: Саха ата, romanized: Sakha ata) or Yakut is a native horse breed from Sakha (Yakutia) in the region of Siberia in Russia. It is large compared to the otherwise similar Mongolian horse and Przewalski's horse. It is noted for its adaptation to the extreme cold climate of Yakutia, including the ability to locate and graze on vegetation that is under deep snow cover, and to survive without shelter in temperatures that reach −70 °C (−94 °F).
The horses appear to have evolved from domesticated horses brought with the Yakuts when they migrated to the area beginning in the 13th century, and are not descended from wild horses known to inhabit the area in Neolithic times.

Title: Yakut language
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakut_language
Summary: Yakut ( yə-KOOT), also known as Sakha ( sə-KHAH) or Yakutian, is a Siberian Turkic language spoken by around 450,000 native speakers—primarily by ethnic Yakuts, but also by the Evenki, Even, Yukaghir and the Starozhily peoples. It is one of the official languages of the Sakha Republic, a republic in the Russian Federation.
The Yakut language has a large number of loanwords of Mongolic origin, a layer of vocabulary of unclear origin, as well as numerous recent borrowings from Russian. Like other Turkic languages, Yakut is an agglutinative language and features vowel harmony.

Title: Yakut nationalism
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakut_nationalism
Summary: Yakut nationalism refers to the belief that the Yakuts (or Sakha) should constitute an independent nation. Some attempts have been made to create an independent state for the Yakut people, such as the Tungus Republic, while others aimed for higher autonomy within Russia, such as the Yakut revolt.