Title: Sony Mobile
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony_Mobile
Summary: Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, was a multinational consumer electronics and telecommunications company, best known for its mobile phone products. The company, originally a joint venture between Sony and Ericsson, marketed products under the "Sony Ericsson" brand from 2001 until 2012, when Ericsson sold its share to Sony, with products hereafter being branded as "Sony". From its inception until 2018, previous presidents of Sony Mobile included Katsumi Ihara, Miles Flint, Hideki Komiyama, Bert Nordberg, Kunimasa Suzuki and Hiroki Totoki. After that, Mitsuya Kishida served as its last president until it was integrated into Sony Corporation in 2021.
The alliance between Swedish telecom giant Ericsson and Japanese electronics giant Sony was formed to help Ericsson Mobile recover against competitors in the mobile phone market, while for Sony it gave the opportunity to grow in the field of cellular communication, where it had only a minor presence. Products and development was done with contributions from both parties: the company itself was based in London, England, with its design centre in Lund, Sweden, and other research and development facilities in Beijing, China; Tokyo, Japan; and San Francisco, United States. The Sony Ericsson T68i was the first GSM phone released under the joint venture since its launch. After the Sony acquisition, the company, now as Sony Mobile, moved its headquarters to Tokyo, Japan.
Some of the most notable phones produced by Sony Ericsson include the T610, the K800i (Cyber-shot branded), the W810 (Walkman-branded), and the Xperia arc S. Sony Ericsson was also the main user of the UIQ smartphone platform, but beginning in 2010 had switched over entirely to Android. After the end of the joint venture, the Xperia sub-brand of Android smartphones would be the only handsets under the Sony brand, although Sony Mobile also developed tablet computers (Xperia Tablet), smartwatches (Sony SmartWatch) and fitness trackers (Sony SmartBand).
At its peak in 2007, Sony Ericsson, Sony Mobile's predecessor, held a 9 percent global mobile phone market share making it the fourth largest vendor at the time. In 2017, Sony Mobile held less than 1% global market share but 4.8% in Europe and 16.3% in Japan.

Title: Lenovo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lenovo
Summary: Lenovo Group Limited, trading as Lenovo ( lə-NOH-voh, Chinese: 联想; pinyin: Liánxiǎng), is a Hong Kong–based Chinese multinational corporation and technology company specializing in designing, manufacturing, and marketing consumer electronics, personal computers, software, servers, converged and hyperconverged infrastructure solutions, and related services. Its smartphone brand is Motorola. Its global headquarters are in Beijing, China, and Morrisville, North Carolina, in the United States;  it has research centers at these locations, elsewhere in mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, in Stuttgart, Germany, and in Yamato, Kanagawa, Japan.
Lenovo originated as an offshoot of a state-owned research institute. Then known as Legend and distributing foreign IT products, co-founder Liu Chuanzhi incorporated Legend in Hong Kong in an attempt to raise capital and was successfully permitted to build computers in China, helped by the American company AST Research. Legend listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 1994 and became the largest PC manufacturer in China and eventually in Asia; they were also domestic distributors for HP printers, Toshiba laptops, and others. After the company rebranded itself to Lenovo, it merged with IBM's PC business which produced its ThinkPad line in 2005, after which it rapidly expanded abroad. In 2013, Lenovo became the world's largest personal computer vendor by unit sales for the first time, a position it still holds as of 2024.
Products manufactured by the company include desktop computers, laptops, tablet computers, smartphones, workstations, servers, supercomputers, data storage devices, IT management software, and smart televisions. Its best-known brands include its ThinkPad business line of notebooks, the IdeaPad, Yoga, LOQ, and Legion consumer lines of notebooks, and the IdeaCentre, LOQ, Legion, and ThinkCentre lines of desktops. Lenovo is also part of a joint venture with NEC, named Lenovo NEC Holdings, that produces personal computers for the Japanese market. The company also operates Motorola Mobility, which produces smartphones.

Title: IPhone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPhone
Summary: The iPhone is a line of smartphones developed and marketed by Apple that run iOS, the company's own mobile operating system. The first-generation iPhone was announced by then–Apple CEO and co-founder Steve Jobs on January 9, 2007, at Macworld 2007, and first launched in June 2007. Since then, Apple has annually released new iPhone models and iOS versions; the latest models are the iPhone 17, the entry-level iPhone 17e, the iPhone Air, the higher-end iPhone 18 Pro and Pro Max, and the iPhone Duo. As of July 2025, more than 3 billion iPhones have been sold. Apple has been the largest vendor of mobile phones since 2023.
The original iPhone was the first mobile phone to use multi-touch technology. Throughout its history, the iPhone has gained larger, higher-resolution displays, video-recording functionality, waterproofing, and many accessibility features. Up to the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus, iPhones had a single button on the front panel, with the iPhone 5s and later integrating a Touch ID fingerprint sensor. Since the iPhone X, models have switched to a nearly bezel-less front screen design with Face ID facial recognition in place of Touch ID for authentication, and increased use of gestures in place of the home button for navigation.
The iPhone, which operates using Apple's proprietary iOS operating system, is one of the two major smartphone platforms in the world, alongside Android. The first-generation iPhone was described by Steve Jobs as a "revolution" for the mobile phone industry. The iPhone has been credited with popularizing the slate smartphone form factor, and with creating a large market for smartphone apps, or "app economy", laying the foundation for the mobile-device market boom. In addition to the apps that come pre-installed on iOS, there are nearly 2 million apps available for download from Apple's mobile distribution marketplace, the App Store, as of August 2024.

Title: Usage share of operating systems
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_operating_systems
Summary: The usage share of an operating system is the percentage of computers running that operating system (OS). These statistics are estimates as usage data is difficult to obtain and measure. Reliable primary sources are limited and data collection methodology is not formally agreed upon.
Devices connecting to the World Wide Web log which operating system they are using, and so are an approximate measure of OS usage among consumer devices. As of December 2025, among all devices Android, which uses the Linux kernel, is the world's most common operating system to connect to the web with 34.9% of the global market, followed by Windows with 29.98%, iOS with 16.81%, macOS with 2.03%, and other operating systems with 9.06% total.
Between different classes of devices:

For smartphones and other mobile devices, Android has 72% share of traffic, and Apple's iOS has 28%.
For desktop computers and laptops, Microsoft Windows has 62.16%, followed by unknown operating systems at 18.75%, Mac OS at 14.58%, desktop Linux at 3.09%, then Google's ChromeOS at 1.42%, as of June 2026.
For tablets, Apple's iPadOS (a variant of iOS) has 51.23% share and Android has 48.61% worldwide.
Of the top 500 most powerful supercomputers, all since November 2017 have used Linux. 
The global server operating system market share has Linux leading with a 63.1% market share, followed by Windows, Unix and other operating systems.
The most numerous type of device with an operating system are embedded systems. Not all embedded systems have operating systems, instead running their application code on the "bare metal"; of those that do have operating systems, a high percentage are standalone or do not have a web browser, which makes their usage share difficult to measure. Some operating systems used in embedded systems are more widely used than some of those mentioned above. For example, modern Intel microprocessors contain an embedded management processor running a version of the Minix operating system.

Title: Lenovo smartphones
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lenovo_smartphones
Summary: Lenovo smartphones are marketed as the "LePhone" in mainland China, and as the "IdeaPhone" overseas (designed and manufactured by the Motorola Mobility, ZUK Mobile and Medion, divisions of Lenovo). On April 27, 2017, Lenovo announced that the ZUK brand would cease operations. In 2015, Lenovo subsumed its own smartphone division into the acquired Motorola brand.