The Garfield Movie is a 2024 animated adventure comedy film based on the comic strip Garfield created by Jim Davis. Directed by Mark Dindal and written by Paul A. Kaplan, Mark Torgove, and David Reynolds, it is the third theatrical Garfield film adaptation and sixth overall. This is the first Garfield film since Garfield's Pet Force, which was released 15 years prior. The film features the voices of Chris Pratt as Garfield and Samuel L. Jackson as his father, alongside Hannah Waddingham, Ving Rhames, Nicholas Hoult, Cecily Strong, Harvey Guillén, Brett Goldstein, Bowen Yang, and Snoop Dogg. In the film, Garfield is reunited with his long-lost father, a street cat named Vic, before being forced into joining him on a high-stakes adventure.
Development on The Garfield Movie began at Alcon Entertainment in 2016. Dindal was announced as the film's director in November 2018, and pre-production began the following month. By 2021, Pratt had been cast as Garfield, with the rest of the cast joining the following year. The film was animated by DNEG Animation, while John Debney, a frequent collaborator of Dindal, composed the score. 
The Garfield Movie premiered at Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles on May 19, 2024, and was released In the United States on May 24, by Sony Pictures Releasing. The film received generally mixed-to-negative reviews from critics but was a commercial success, grossing $257 million against a $60 million budget. It was nominated at the 2024 Kids' Choice Awards for Favorite Animated Movie. A sequel is in development.


== Plot ==
Garfield is a fat, sedentary tabby cat who lives a pampered lifestyle with his beagle dog sidekick, Odie, and their owner, Jon Arbuckle. One night, while getting a midnight snack, Garfield and Odie are abducted by a Shar Pei named Roland and a Whippet named Nolan, and taken to an abandoned mall, where they are rescued by Vic, Garfield's estranged father, whom Garfield resents for abandoning him in an alley as a kitten. Jinx, a deranged white Persian cat with a grudge against Vic, arrives seeking revenge for being left behind during a milk heist at Lactose Farms. She then offers to forgive Vic if he, Garfield, and Odie steal a large quantity of milk as compensation for her imprisonment in the pound, while Roland and Nolan watch closely.
The following morning, Jon notices Garfield and Odie's disappearance, and has trouble calling people to help search for them. While freighthopping a freight train to Lactose Farms, which is through a series of temperate broadleaf and mixed forests in the rural area, Vic attempts to bond with Garfield to no avail. The trio reach the farm, which is heavily guarded by an advanced security system, and meet Otto, a Highland bull and the farm's former mascot, who was cast out after a corporation took over, separating him from his cow girlfriend, Ethel. They agree to help get Ethel out of the farm if he helps them break in.
While preparing for the heist, Garfield and Vic frequently clash with each other, forcing Odie and Otto to tie them to an oak tree. During a heated argument, Vic forlornly reveals that he was actually obtaining food for Garfield, but the busboy got in the way, delaying his return. He returned with an anchovy, only to find Jon taking care of him in an Italian restaurant that he wandered off into. Solemnly accepting Jon as a better care provider, Vic let him adopt Garfield and kept his distance from his son. Understanding the circumstances, Garfield forgives his father. Meanwhile, Roland and Nolan report to Jinx, but she calls the farm's animal control officer, Marge Malone, to frame Garfield, Odie, and Vic for it.
Guided by Otto, the trio successfully infiltrates the farm, but Marge intercepts them at the loading dock and captures Garfield and Odie. Vic remorsefully leaves them behind despite his son's pleas, steals the milk truck, and successfully delivers it to Jinx, only to be betrayed and captured by her. Meanwhile, Garfield and Odie end up at the pound, where Garfield meets Vic's old crewmates, who kicked him out for prioritizing Garfield over their plans, and Vic has been keeping distance, watching him, though Garfield does not believe their claims until Jon arrives to bail them out and retrieve them. After returning home, Garfield discovers Vic's tally marks on an oak tree, realizing that he loves him and left him and Odie to protect them from Jinx, knowing she lied about forgiving him.
Garfield, with renewed faith in his father, decides that he and Odie need to save him at the mall. There, they discover Jinx's plan to kill Vic by throwing him off a cable-stayed bridge into the canyon below filled with jagged rocks. Garfield, Odie, Otto, and an army of drones arrive to rescue Vic, but they fail and are left at Jinx's mercy. However, witnessing Vic and Garfield's love for each other, Roland and Nolan now have a change of heart, turn on Jinx, who in response pushes them off the train and into the canyon, only to be knocked off herself. Otto uses a rope to catch everyone, landing them safely on a net set up by Odie, and apprehending Jinx. They then return to the farm via a milk truck, trading Jinx to Marge for Ethel's release and reuniting her with Otto. The reformed Roland and Nolan work as guard dogs for Marge, while Jinx serves community service as punishment for her crimes.
Upon returning home, Garfield finally reconciles with Vic, who moves in with the trio and officially becomes a part of his son's life. A party is thrown with the cows, Vic's old crew, Roland and Nolan, and the animal representatives.


== Voice cast ==

Nermal appears during the party scene in the final scene of the movie, but has no dialogue.


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In May 2016, seven years after 20th Century Fox's license with Paws, Inc. expired, it was announced that Alcon Entertainment would develop an animated Garfield film, with John Cohen and Steven P. Wegner producing, from a script by Mark Torgove