Title: Nairobi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nairobi
Summary: Nairobi (  ny-ROH-bee) (Jiji kuu la Nairobi, in Swahili),  is the capital and largest city of Kenya, located in the south-central part of the country. As of 2026, it has a population of 5.6 million and a metropolitan population of 15.95 million, making it the 8th most populous city in Africa and the 4th most populous metropolitan area. The city goes beyond its borders and has expanded into neighbouring counties, making it the 4th largest metropolitan area in Africa.
Nicknamed the "Green City under the Sun", Nairobi is uniquely notable for being the only capital city in the world that hosts a national park within its boundaries. Its name originates from the Maasai phrase Enkare Nyirobi, meaning "place of cool waters".
As the national capital, Nairobi is home to the Kenyan Parliament Buildings, the State House and the Supreme Court Building. It is the major financial and economic hub of East Africa, hosting thousands of Kenyan businesses and international companies and organisations, including the United Nations Environment Programme (UN Environment) and the United Nations Office at Nairobi (UNON). The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) is one of the largest stock exchanges in Africa and the second-oldest exchange on the continent. It is Africa's fourth-largest stock exchange by trading volume, capable of processing 10 million trades a day. Nairobi is considered a global city and was ranked as a "Beta World City" by the Globalisation and World Cities Research Network as of 2024.
Nairobi was founded in 1898 by colonial authorities in British East Africa, as a rail depot on the Uganda–Kenya Railway. The authorities favoured it as an ideal resting place due to its high elevation, temperate climate, and adequate water supply. The town quickly grew to replace Mombasa as the capital of Kenya in 1907.
After independence in 1963, Nairobi became the capital of the Republic of Kenya. During Kenya's early period, the city became a centre for the coffee, tea and sisal industries. Successive post-independence governments have built and turned Nairobi into a modern metropolitan city with a diverse population and a growing economy.

Title: List of waterfalls
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_waterfalls
Summary: This list of notable waterfalls of the world is sorted by continent, then country, then province, state or territory. A waterfall is included if it is at least 15 m (50 ft) tall, or it is considered significant.
There is no standard way to measure the height or width of a waterfall. No ranking of waterfalls should be assumed because of the heights or widths provided in the list. Many numbers are estimated and measurements may be imprecise. See additional lists of waterfalls by height, flow rate and type.

Title: Sipi Falls
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sipi_Falls
Summary: Sipi Falls is a series of three waterfalls located on the north-western slopes of the eponymous extinct volcano, Mount Elgon, in Uganda, with views over the Karamoja plains. The falls are situated to the northeast of Sironko and Mbale, adjacent to Mount Elgon National Park, which is located 1.7 kilometers (1 mile) away from the Kenyan border. The falls account for 10% to 20% of all tourist visits to Uganda every year.
At its highest point, the largest of the three waterfalls, known as Sipi Falls, stands at 95 meters (312 feet) high. The middle waterfall – known as Simba Falls, lies further upstream to the east. This waterfall has a drop of 74 m (243 ft). Further uphill is the third waterfall, known as Ngasire Falls, with a drop of approximately 85 m (262 ft).

Title: Nyeri
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nyeri
Summary: Nyeri is a town situated in the Central Highlands of Kenya, at an average elevation of about 1,750 to 1,812 metres (5,750 to 5,945 feet) above sea level. It is the headquarters of Nyeri County and was the central administrative headquarters of the country's former Central Province. The town is situated about 150 km north of Nairobi, in the country's densely populated and fertile Central Highlands. The town lies between the eastern base of the Nyandarua (Aberdare) Range, which forms part of the eastern side of the Great Rift Valley, and the western slopes of Mount Kenya.
The town's population, according to the 2019 Kenya Population and Housing Census, was estimated at 140,338 inhabitants. However, the number is rapidly growing. There is, a significant population of primarily Government and corporate workers who ordinarily reside in Nyeri but who, during the census, choose to be counted in their areas of origin or the areas where their families are residents. The town has a relatively low cost of living compared to Nairobi and other major urban centres in Kenya. Located in Kenya's fertile highlands, food and water are plentiful and relatively affordable.
The tomb of Robert Baden-Powell, the founder of the Scout movement is in the local cemetery. It is the home town of the late Nobel laureate Wangarĩ Maathai. It is also the home of Dedan Kimathi University of Technology (DeKUT), founded by the local community in the early 1970s as an institute of technology, and converted into a fully fledged university in 2012.

Title: Tourism in Pakistan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tourism_in_Pakistan
Summary: Tourism in Pakistan is a growing industry. In 2010, Lonely Planet termed Pakistan "tourism's 'next big thing'". The country is geographically and ethnically diverse, and has a number of historical and cultural heritage sites. Condé Nast Traveller ranked Pakistan The Best Holiday Destination for 2020 and also declared it the third-highest potential adventure destination in the world for 2020. As security in the country improves, tourism increases; in two years, it has increased by more than 300%.
In 2018, the British Backpacker Society ranked Pakistan the world's top adventure travel destination, describing the country as "one of the friendliest countries on earth, with mountain scenery that is beyond anyone's wildest imagination". Forbes ranked Pakistan as one of the ‘coolest places’ to visit in 2019. The World Economic Forum's Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Report placed Pakistan in the top 25 percent of global destinations for its World Heritage Sites, which range from the mangroves in the Indus delta to the Indus Valley civilisation sites including Mohenjo-daro and Harappa.
According to the World Economic Forum's Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Report 2017, the direct contribution of travel and tourism to Pakistan's GDP in 2015 was US$328.3 million, constituting 2.8% of the total GDP. According to the World Travel and Tourism Council, the direct contribution of travel and tourism to Pakistan's GDP in 2016 was Rs. 793 billion (equivalent to Rs. 4.0 trillion or US$14 billion in 2021), constituting 2.7% of the total GDP. By 2025, the government predicts tourism will contribute Rs. 1 trillion (US$3.6 billion) to the Pakistani economy.
In October 2006, one year after the 2005 Kashmir earthquake, The Guardian released a list of "the top five tourist sites in Pakistan" to help the country's tourism industry. The sites included Lahore, the Karakoram Highway, Karimabad and Lake Saiful Muluk. To promote the country's cultural heritage, in 2007, Pakistan launched the "Visit Pakistan" marketing campaign that involved events including fairs, religious festivals, regional sporting events, arts and craft shows, folk festivals and openings of historical museums.
In 2013, over half a million tourists visited Pakistan, contributing $298 million; these figures have since risen to over 6.6 million tourists in 2018. By comparison, Pakistan's domestic tourism industry is estimated at 50 million tourists who travel in the country on short trips usually between May and August. The largest inflow of tourists are from the United Kingdom, followed by the United States and China.