Title: League of Legends World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/League_of_Legends_World_Championship
Summary: The League of Legends World Championship (commonly abbreviated as Worlds) is the annual professional League of Legends world championship tournament hosted by Riot Games and is the culmination of each season. Teams compete for the champion title, the 22-pound (10-kilogram) Summoner's Cup, and a multi-million-dollar championship prize. In 2018, the final was watched by 99.6 million people, breaking 2017's final's viewer record. The tournament has been praised for its ceremonial performances, while receiving attention worldwide due to its dramatic and emotional nature.
The League of Legends World Championships has gained success and popularity, making it among the world's most watched tournaments, as well as the most watched esports event in the world.
The tournament rotates its venues across different major countries and regions each year, with the next edition set to take place in the United States. South Korea's T1 is the most successful team in the tournament's history, having won six world championships.

Title: League of Legends EMEA Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/League_of_Legends_EMEA_Championship
Summary: The League of Legends EMEA Championship (LEC) is the professional League of Legends esports league run by Riot Games in the EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) region, in which ten teams compete. Each annual season is divided into three splits: Winter, Spring and Summer. At the end of the season, the top performing teams qualify for various international events: the First Stand Tournament by winning the LEC Versus tournament, the Mid-Season Invitational (MSI) for the top two teams of the Spring Split, the League of Legends World Championship for the top three teams of Summer Split. The LEC represents the highest level of League of Legends play in the EMEA region.
With the exception of some touring events, all games of the LEC are played live at the Riot Games Arena in Adlershof, Berlin, Germany. In addition to a small studio audience, all games are streamed live in several languages on Twitch and YouTube, with broadcasts regularly attracting over 300,000 viewers.
The popularity and success of the LEC has attracted significant media attention. On 30 September 2016, the French Senate unanimously adopted the last version of the Law for a Digital Republic, significantly improving the visa process for LEC players and esports athletes in general, giving a legal framework to esports contracts, introducing mechanisms to ensure payment of cash prizes, specifying rights for minor esport athletes, and more. A few months before, France also introduced a new esports federation, "France Esports", which has the duty to be a representative body of esports towards the government and serve as a "partner of the French National Olympic and Sports Committee for all matters relating to the recognition of electronic sports as sport in itself". Spain did the same in November 2016, creating the Spanish Federation of Video Games and Esports Spanish Federation of Video Games and Esports. The LEC has attracted sponsorships from LG UltraGear, Kia, Red Bull, and Erste Group.
Fnatic is the only team remaining that has played in every split since the inaugural 2013 Spring Split. G2 Esports is the team with the most champion titles, with 18 in total.

Title: League of Legends in esports
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/League_of_Legends_in_esports
Summary: League of Legends esports is the professional competition of the multiplayer online battle arena video game League of Legends. The game, released in 2009, was the first to be developed and published by Riot Games. Esports tournaments for the game began as early as 2010, most notably with the 2010 World Cyber Games when it was featured as a promotion game. In 2011, the first edition of the League of Legends World Championship was held at DreamHack in Jönköping, Sweden, which was won by Fnatic.
League of Legends is one of the largest esports with various annual tournaments taking place worldwide. In terms of esports professional gaming as of June 2016, League of Legends has had US$29,203,916 in prize money, 4,083 Players, and 1,718 tournaments, compared to Dota 2's US$64,397,286 of prize money, 1,495 players, and 613 tournaments.
Former League Championship Series commissioner Chris Greeley is the current Global Head of League of Legends Esports (LoL Esports) for Riot Games since 2024.

Title: 2024 League of Legends World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_League_of_Legends_World_Championship
Summary: The 2024 League of Legends World Championship (German: League of Legends Weltmeisterschaft 2024; French: Le Championnat du Monde 2024 de League of Legends) was an esports tournament for the multiplayer online battle arena video game League of Legends. It was the fourteenth iteration of the League of Legends World Championship, an annual international tournament organised by the game's developer, Riot Games. The tournament was held from 25 September to 2 November in Berlin, Paris, and London. It marked the third time Germany and France hosted the event after the 2015 and 2019 editions, while it was the second World Championship to be held in England, United Kingdom since 2015. Twenty teams qualified for the event based on placement within their regional leagues and results gained in the 2024 Mid-Season Invitational (MSI).
The finals took place on 2 November at The O2 Arena in London, where T1 of the League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) successfully defended their title after defeating Bilibili Gaming of the League of Legends Pro League (LPL) 3–2 to win the organization's record-extending fifth World Championship.

Title: 2025 League of Legends World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_League_of_Legends_World_Championship
Summary: The 2025 League of Legends World Championship (Chinese: 2025英雄联盟全球总决赛) was an esports tournament for the multiplayer online battle arena video game League of Legends, held in China from 14 October to 9 November in Beijing, Shanghai, and Chengdu. It was the fifteenth iteration of the League of Legends World Championship, an annual international tournament organised by the game's developer, Riot Games.
China hosted the event for the third time, having previously hosted it in 2017 and 2020. It was the first edition held under Riot Games' new split structure and competitive calendar, and the first to feature the Fearless Draft format. Seventeen teams qualified based on placement within their regional leagues and results gained in the 2025 Mid-Season Invitational (MSI).
The finals took place at the Dong'an Lake Sports Park Multifunctional Gymnasium in Chengdu, where T1 of the League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) successfully defended their title once again after defeating fellow Korean representatives KT Rolster with a 3–2 scoreline. The organization subsequently won its record-extending sixth World Championship, and became the first team to win three consecutive world titles. The final's MVP was awarded to Lee "Gumayusi" Min-hyeong, who became the first ADC player to win the award since Park "Ruler" Jae-hyuk in 2017.