Title: List of highest-grossing films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_films
Summary: Films generate income from several revenue streams, including theatrical exhibition, home video, television broadcast rights, and merchandising. However, theatrical box-office earnings are the primary metric for trade publications in assessing the success of a film, mostly because of the availability of the data compared to sales figures for home video and broadcast rights, but also because of historical practice. Included on the list are charts of the top box-office earners (ranked by both the nominal and real value of their revenue), a chart of high-grossing films by calendar year, a timeline showing the transition of the highest-grossing film record, and a chart of the highest-grossing film franchises and series. All charts are ranked by international theatrical box-office performance where possible, excluding income derived from home video, broadcasting rights, and merchandise.
Traditionally, war films, musicals, and historical dramas have been the most popular genres, but franchise films have been among the best performers of the 21st century. There is strong interest in the superhero genre, with eleven films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe featuring among the nominal top-earners. The most successful superhero film, Avengers: Endgame, is also the second-highest-grossing film on the nominal earnings chart, and there are four films in total based on the Avengers comic books charting in the top twenty-five. Other Marvel Comics adaptations have also had success with the Spider-Man and X-Men properties, while films based on Batman and Superman from DC Comics have generally performed well. Beyond the superhero genre, Star Wars, with four films, is the most represented franchise in the nominal earnings chart. Although the nominal earnings chart is dominated by films adapted from pre-existing properties and sequels, it is headed by Avatar, which is an original work. Animated family films have performed consistently well, with Disney films enjoying lucrative re-releases prior to the home-video era. Disney also enjoyed later success with films such as Frozen and its sequel, Zootopia and its sequel, and The Lion King (along with its computer-animated remake), as well as its Pixar division, of which Inside Out 2, Incredibles 2, and Toy Story 3, 4 and 5 have been the best performers. Beyond Disney and Pixar animation, China's Ne Zha 2 (the highest-grossing animated film), and the Despicable Me and Shrek series have met with the most success.
While inflation has eroded the achievements of most films from the 1960s and 1970s, there are franchises originating from that period that are still active. Besides the Star Wars franchise, James Bond films are still being released periodically; both are among the highest-grossing franchises. Some of the older films that held the record of highest-grossing film still have respectable grosses by today's standards, but no longer compete numerically against today's top-earners in an era of much higher individual ticket prices. When those prices are adjusted for inflation, however, then Gone with the Wind—which was the highest-grossing film outright for twenty-five years—is still the highest-grossing film of all time. All grosses on the list are expressed in U.S. dollars at their nominal value, except where stated otherwise.

Title: List of biggest box-office bombs
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_biggest_box-office_bombs
Summary: In the film and media industry, if a film released in theatres fails to break even by a large amount, it is considered a box-office bomb (or box-office flop), thus losing money for the distributor, studio, or production company that invested in it. Due to the secrecy surrounding costs and profit margins in the film industry, figures of losses are usually rough estimates at best, and there are often conflicting estimates over how much a film has lost. To accommodate this uncertainty, the losses are presented as ranges where this is the case, and the list is ordered alphabetically in the absence of a definitive order. Because the films on the list have been released over a large span of time, currency inflation is a material factor, so losses are adjusted for inflation using the United States Consumer Price Index to enable comparison at equivalent purchasing power. Many box office bombs are films with average or negative critical reception, which can contribute to low theater attendance, but critically-praised films may still become box office bombs for other reasons, such as expansive budgets or release timing with other films.
Some films on this list grossed more than their production budgets yet are still regarded as flops. This can be due to Hollywood accounting practices that manipulate profits or keep costs secret to circumvent profit-sharing agreements, but it is also possible for films to lose money legitimately even when the theatrical gross exceeds the budget. This is because a distributor does not collect the full gross, and the full cost of a film can substantially exceed its production budget once distribution and marketing are taken into account. For example, tax filings in 2010 for Cinemark Theatres show that only 54.5 percent of ticket revenues went to the distributor, with the exhibitor retaining the rest. While the distributor's cut will vary from film to film, a Hollywood studio will typically collect half the gross in the United States and less in other parts of the world. Marketing often represents a substantial share of the overall cost of the picture too: for a film with an average sized budget the promotion and advertising costs are typically half that of the production budget, and in the case of smaller films it is not unusual for the cost of the marketing to be higher than the production budget. In some cases, a company can make profits from a box-office bomb when ancillary revenues are taken into account, such as streaming, home media sales and rentals, television broadcast rights, and licensing fees, so a film that loses money at the box office can still eventually break even.
There are some films notorious for large production budgets and widely seen as box-office bombs that have either broken even or turned a profit. Cleopatra nearly bankrupted 20th Century Fox with production and marketing costs of US$44 million and numerous delays. It was among the top ten films of the 1960s, but still failed to recoup its investment during its theatrical release. It eventually broke even in 1966 when Fox sold the television broadcast rights to ABC for $5 million. The total costs for Waterworld (1995) exceeded $300 million and it was perceived as a disaster at the time, despite grossing $264 million worldwide. It also eventually broke even through other revenue streams. Such films are still cited as high-risk examples in evaluating the prospects of future productions. For example, Cleopatra is blamed for a decline in big-budget epic films in the 1960s.
The COVID-19 pandemic, starting around March 2020, caused temporary closure of movie theatres, and distributors moved several films to premier to streaming services such as HBO Max, Disney+, and Peacock with little to no box-office takes. While these films may have had successful runs on these services, the viewership or revenue from these showings are typically not reported and excluded from the box office. As a result, several films from 2020 to 2022 are included on this list, despite potentially having been profitable for their studios through streaming.

Title: Box Office India
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Box_Office_India
Summary: Box Office India is an Indian film website dedicated to tracking, reporting, and analyzing the financial performance of films released in the Hindi entertainment industry. 
Established in 2003, Box Office India has become a prominent source of data and insights regarding box office revenues, viewership trends, and industry analyses within the Bollywood industry and other regional cinema in India. The website serves as a comprehensive source for box office statistics, including daily, weekly, and lifetime earnings of films across various Indian languages. Its traffic ranking in India is 83,665 as of 10 July 2021, and is frequently visited by other countries such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Nepal. Its site does not include collections from dubbed Telugu, Tamil, or Kannada versions of Bollywood films and vice-versa, nor does it include overseas collections from Far Eastern or Russian markets. 
A new Box Office India website went live on 20 January 2014.

Title: List of highest-grossing Malayalam films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_Malayalam_films
Summary: Malayalam cinema is part of Indian cinema, based in Kerala and focused on producing films in the Malayalam language. This ranking lists the highest-grossing Malayalam films based on conservative global box office estimates reported by various sources. The figures are not adjusted for inflation.

Title: Diagnosis: Dissent
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diagnosis:_Dissent
Summary: Diagnosis: Dissent (Ukrainian: «БожеВільні», romanized: Bozhevilni, also known as Madmen) is a 2023 Ukrainian feature film, a historical drama directed by Denys Tarasov, whose characters in the 1970s confront the Soviet system's use of punitive psychiatry to suppress dissent.
The world premiere took place at the Warsaw International Film Festival on October 13, 2023. The film received a Special Mention Award in the 1-2 COMPETITION section. It was released in Ukrainian theaters on October 31, 2024. Box office earnings amounted to ₴4.2 million.