Title: AMA Superbike Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMA_Superbike_Championship
Summary: AMA Superbike Championship is an American motorcycle racing series based in the United States. The series is organized by MotoAmerica and is sanctioned by the American Motorcyclist Association (AMA) as well as the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM). For most of its existence it has been considered the premier motorcycle road racing series in the United States. The championship features “highly modified, production based liter class motorcycles” competing at premier tracks across the country.
The AMA Superbike Championship can trace its roots back to the AMA Open Production event that began in 1973. AMA Open Production was hosted alongside the AMA Road Race National at Laguna Seca Raceway in 1973 and 1974. By 1976, the event became a major class, appearing at all 4 AMA Grand Nationals that season, and its name was changed to Superbike Production. In 1986, the AMA made the Grand National Championship into a dirt-track-only series splitting off the road-racing rounds into their own series, the Superbike Production events became the AMA Superbike Championship. In 2015 MotoAmerica became the series organizer, resulting in all AMA Superbike Championship events being held under the MotoAmerica name.

Title: Superbike World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superbike_World_Championship
Summary: Superbike World Championship (also known as WorldSBK, SBK, World Superbike, WSB, or WSBK) is a silhouette road racing series based on heavily modified production sports motorcycles.
The championship was founded in 1988. The Superbike World Championship consists of a series of rounds held on permanent racing facilities. Each round has two full length races and, from 2019, an additional ten-lap sprint race known as the Superpole race. The results of all three races are combined to determine three annual World Championships, one for riders, one for manufacturers and, as of 2024, a Teams World Championship.
The motorcycles that race in the championship are tuned versions of motorcycles available for sale to the public, by contrast with MotoGP where purpose built machines are used. MotoGP is the motorcycle world's equivalent of Formula One, whereas Superbike racing is similar to sports car racing.
Europe is Superbike World Championship's traditional centre and leading market. However, rounds have been held in the United States, Canada, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Japan, Argentina, Australia, New Zealand, Qatar, and South Africa and the series plans on keeping extra-European circuits in rotation. 
The championship is regulated by the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM) and organised by MotoGP Sports Entertainment Group.

Title: 2026 Formula One World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Formula_One_World_Championship
Summary: The 2026 FIA Formula One World Championship is a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and the 77th running of the Formula One World Championship. It is recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the governing body of international motorsport, as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. The championship is contested over twenty-two Grands Prix held around the world. It began in March and is scheduled to end in December. Drivers and teams compete for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion, respectively. Lando Norris is the reigning World Drivers' Champion, while McLaren-Mercedes are the reigning World Constructors' Champions.
The 2026 season features a major set of regulation changes with a revised power unit configuration and new active aerodynamics along with the addition of an eleventh team competing for the first time since 2016. Audi, who acquired Sauber in 2024, enter as a works team with its own power unit, while Cadillac are making their debut in the championship using Ferrari power units. Honda, through its Honda Racing Corporation subsidiary, entered into an exclusive works team agreement with Aston Martin, and are supplying them with their own power unit after ending its relationship with Red Bull Racing. Ford returned to the sport for the first time since 2004, supporting Red Bull Powertrains in supplying power units to Red Bull Racing and Racing Bulls. Renault is no longer an engine supplier as Alpine switched to Mercedes power units.

Title: 2024 Formula One World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Formula_One_World_Championship
Summary: The 2024 FIA Formula One World Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and was the 75th running of the Formula One World Championship. It was recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the governing body of international motorsport, as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. The championship was contested over a record twenty-four Grands Prix held around the world.
Drivers and teams competed for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion, respectively. Defending Drivers' Champion Max Verstappen of Red Bull Racing dominated the opening 10 races with seven wins, however the season as a whole was highly competitive with a record-making six other drivers claiming multiple Grand Prix victories. McLaren driver Lando Norris emerged as Verstappen's closest competitor as the MCL38 began to consistently outperform the RB20. Verstappen maintained his points advantage to win his fourth consecutive Drivers' Championship title at the Las Vegas Grand Prix. Verstappen's title made him only third drivers' champion after Keke Rosberg in 1982 and Nelson Piquet in 1983 to win the drivers' championship with a team that finished 3rd or lower in the constructors' championship, and the second driver after Piquet to win the drivers' championship in a team that did not become constructors' champions on two or more occasions. McLaren surpassed Red Bull and went on to achieve their ninth Constructors' Championship title at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, narrowly ahead of Ferrari by just 14 points. With their first Constructors' Championship victory in 26 years, McLaren became the first constructor other than Red Bull and Mercedes to win the title since Brawn in 2009.

Title: 2026 MotoGP World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_MotoGP_World_Championship
Summary: The 2026 FIM MotoGP World Championship is the premier class of the 78th Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM) Road Racing World Championship season, the highest level of competition in motorcycle road racing. It is the final season of the premier class using 1000cc engines and Michelin series-specified tyres, before switching to new 850cc engine regulations and tyres sourced from Pirelli, among other technical changes, from the 2027 season onwards.
MotoGP introduced a new racing class starting in the 2026 season, the "Harley-Davidson Bagger World Cup", featuring bagger-style motorcycles modified for racing, competing in six selected rounds of the MotoGP calendar across Europe and North America.