Title: Vince Russo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vince_Russo
Summary: Vincent James Russo (born January 24, 1961) is an American professional wrestling writer, booker, and pundit. He is working for Juggalo Championship Wrestling where he serves as an authority figure and co-owner. He is notable for his tenures in creative roles with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). He also occasionally made appearances as an on-screen authority figure, and professional wrestler, in WCW and TNA. During a self-booked in-ring career in WCW, Russo became a one-time WCW World Heavyweight Champion.
Russo's writing style often blurs the line between reality and fiction, while also favoring elements such as shock twists, grand moments, and larger-than-life characters over in-ring action, which made him a controversial figure among some wrestling fans. Russo was part of the WWF's creative department during the widely acclaimed Attitude Era, during which the company achieved record high television ratings.

Title: Nick Candy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nick_Candy
Summary: Nicholas Anthony Christopher Candy (born 23 January 1973) is a British businessman and politician, who has been the treasurer of Reform UK since December 2024. He was estimated to share a joint net worth of £1.5 billion in the Estates Gazette rich list 2010 along with his brother Christian Candy, placing them at position 52 in the list of the richest property developers in the United Kingdom.

Title: Avengers: Doomsday
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avengers:_Doomsday
Summary: Avengers: Doomsday is an upcoming American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics superhero team the Avengers. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is intended to be the sequel to Avengers: Endgame (2019) and the 39th film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). Directed by Anthony and Joe Russo, and written by Michael Waldron, Stephen McFeely, and the writing team of Chris McKenna and Erik Sommers, the film features an ensemble cast led by Robert Downey Jr. as Doctor Doom. In the film, the Avengers, Wakandans, New Avengers, Fantastic Four, and the X-Men converge from different universes to face Doom.
Two new Avengers films, The Kang Dynasty and Secret Wars, were announced in July 2022 as the conclusion of the MCU's Phase Six and "The Multiverse Saga". Jonathan Majors was set to reprise his MCU role as the villain Kang the Conqueror, with Destin Daniel Cretton and Jeff Loveness hired to direct and write The Kang Dynasty, respectively. In November 2023, Cretton departed, Waldron replaced Loveness as writer, and Marvel was considering moving away from the Kang storyline, in part due to Majors's legal issues; Majors was fired the following month. The return of the Russo brothers as directors and McFeely as co-writer, the casting of Downey as new villain Doctor Doom, and the new subtitle Doomsday were all announced in July 2024. The large cast features actors from previous MCU media and 20th Century Fox's X-Men film series, using the idea of colliding universes to bring together actors from different franchises. Filming took place from April to September 2025 at Pinewood Studios in England, with location filming in England and Bahrain.
Avengers: Doomsday is scheduled to be released in the United States on December 18, 2026, as part of Phase Six of the MCU. The sequel, Avengers: Secret Wars, is set to be released on December 17, 2027.

Title: Production of Avengers: Doomsday and Avengers: Secret Wars
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Production_of_Avengers:_Doomsday_and_Avengers:_Secret_Wars
Summary: Avengers: Doomsday and Avengers: Secret Wars are American superhero films based on the Marvel Comics superhero team the Avengers, produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. They are respectively the fifth and sixth installments in the Avengers film series following Avengers: Endgame (2019), and the 39th and 40th films of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). Both films are directed by Anthony and Joe Russo from screenplays by Michael Waldron, Stephen McFeely, and the writing team of Chris McKenna and Erik Sommers. They feature an ensemble cast composed of many previous MCU actors, headlined by Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, Pedro Pascal, Anthony Mackie, Vanessa Kirby, Ebon Moss-Bachrach, Simu Liu, Joseph Quinn, and Letitia Wright. In Doomsday, the Avengers, Wakandans, Fantastic Four, New Avengers, and the X-Men team up to face Doctor Doom (Downey).
Two new Avengers films, The Kang Dynasty and Secret Wars, were announced in July 2022 as the conclusion of the MCU's Phase Six and "The Multiverse Saga". Destin Daniel Cretton was hired to direct The Kang Dynasty and Jonathan Majors was set to reprise his MCU role as the villain Kang the Conqueror. Jeff Loveness was hired to write The Kang Dynasty that September and Waldron was hired to write Secret Wars a month later. In November 2023, Cretton departed, Waldron replaced Loveness as writer of The Kang Dynasty as well, and Marvel was considering moving away from the Kang storyline in part due to Majors's legal issues; Majors was fired the following month. The return of the Russo brothers as directors and McFeely as co-writer, the casting of Downey as new villain Doctor Doom, and the new subtitle Doomsday for the first film were all announced in July 2024. McKenna and Sommers eventually joined to help work on the scripts.
Both films are being produced at Pinewood Studios in England. Filming for Doomsday took place from April to September 2025, and filming for Secret Wars is scheduled to begin in mid-2026. Jeffrey Ford and Matthew Schmidt are editing the films and Alan Silvestri is composing the musical score for them, both returning from previous MCU films.
Avengers: Doomsday is scheduled for release on December 18, 2026, and Avengers: Secret Wars is scheduled for release on December 17, 2027, both part of Phase Six of the MCU.

Title: Murder of Dominic Russo and Davion Flanagan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Dominic_Russo_and_Davion_Flanagan
Summary: The murder of Dominic Russo and Davion Flanagan occurred during the early morning hours of July 31, 2022, when Mackenzie Shirilla intentionally crashed her vehicle into a brick wall in Strongsville, Ohio, United States, killing two passengers: her boyfriend, Dominic Russo, and their friend, Davion Flanagan. Multiple documentaries have been made about the case.
Both Russo and Flanagan were pronounced dead at the scene, while Shirilla was seriously injured and taken to the hospital. Shirilla was later arrested and charged with the murder of Russo and Flanagan. She was 17 years old at the time of her crime and 18 years old at the time of her arrest.
In a 2023 bench trial, the judge concluded she intentionally crashed the car in an act of premeditated murder. Shirilla was convicted of 12 felony charges and sentenced to two concurrent life sentences, with the possibility of parole after 15 years. As of 2026, she was incarcerated at the Ohio Reformatory for Women and has appealed her conviction three times as of 2026, each time unsuccessfully.