Senna is a Brazilian biographical drama television miniseries created by Vicente Amorim and directed by Amorim and Júlia Rezende, based on the life of racing driver Ayrton Senna, and starring Gabriel Leone as Senna. The series was produced by Brazilian studio Gullane Entretenimento with funding from American studio Netflix, in collaboration with the Senna family. Budgeted at $170 million, it is the most expensive Brazilian television series in history.
The series was released on Netflix on 29 November 2024. It received mixed reviews from critics, who praised Leone's performance, the production design, and the racing scenes, but criticised the character development, historical inaccuracies and perceived bias. It received a nomination for Best Foreign Language Series at the 30th Critics' Choice Awards.


== Plot ==
The series follows Senna's life from the beginning of his racing career in karting to his untimely death at the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix. Particular emphasis is paid to Senna's relationship with his parents and girlfriend Xuxa Meneghel, rivalry with Alain Prost, feud with Jean-Marie Balestre, and complex relationship with the sensationalist racing media.


== Episodes ==


== Cast ==


=== Family ===

Gabriel Leone as Ayrton Senna
Camila Márdila as Viviane Senna, Senna's sister
Sophia Turini as Viviane Senna’s  sister during childhood
Susana Ribeiro as Neyde Joana Senna, Senna's mother
Marco Ricca as Milton Guirado Theodoro da Silva, Senna's father
Nicolas Cruz as Leonardo Senna, Senna's brother


=== Friends ===
Alice Wegmann as Lílian de Vasconcellos Souza, who briefly marries Senna
Pâmela Tomé as Xuxa Meneghel, Senna's longtime girlfriend
Julia Foti as Adriane Galisteu, Senna's girlfriend from 1993 to 1994 at the time of his death.
Christian Malheiros as Maurinho, Senna's friend


=== Media ===
Kaya Scodelario as Laura Harrison, a British-Brazilian racing reporter (a fictional composite character)
Gabriel Louchard as Galvão Bueno, a Brazilian racing broadcaster
Leon Ockenden as James Hunt, a British racing broadcaster and the 1976 Formula One World Champion
Joe Hurst as Keith Sutton, a racing photographer who helps promote Senna's junior career


=== Racing industry ===
Arnaud Viard as Jean-Marie Balestre, FIA president and Senna's nemesis
Rob Compton as Terry Fullerton, Senna's rival in karting, teammate, and friend
Nahuel Monasterio as Enrique Mansilla, Senna's rival in Formula Ford
James Marlowe as Ralph Firman Sr., Senna's team boss in Formula Ford
Charlie Hamblett as Martin Brundle, Senna's rival in Formula Three
Daniel Crossley as Dick Bennetts, Senna's team boss in Formula Three
Tom McKay as Alex Hawkridge, Senna's team boss at Toleman
Richard Clothier as Peter Warr, Senna's team boss at Lotus
Matt Mella as Alain Prost, Senna's rival in Formula One and McLaren teammate
Johannes Heinrichs as Niki Lauda, a three-time Formula One World Champion who gives Senna advice
Hugo Bonemer as Nelson Piquet, the second Brazilian Formula One World Champion
Keisuke Hoashi as Osamu Gotō, Honda's chief engineer at Lotus and McLaren
Patrick Kennedy as Ron Dennis, Senna's team boss at McLaren
Felix Mayr as Gerhard Berger, Senna's McLaren teammate and close friend
Gastón Frías as Damon Hill, Senna's Williams teammate
Steven Mackintosh as Frank Williams, Senna's team boss at Williams
Tom Mannion as Sid Watkins, Formula One's chief doctor and Senna's friend
Felipe Prioli as Riccardo Patrese, F1 driver
João Maestri as Rubens Barrichello, F1 driver
Lucca Messer as Roland Ratzenberger, F1 driver
Murray Walker as himself (archival audio and footage)


== Production ==
In September 2020, Netflix announced that it was funding "the first fictional drama" about Ayrton Senna's life, and that the series would be produced by Brazilian studio Gullane Entretenimento in collaboration with the Senna family. Caio Gullane served as producer and Fabiano Gullane served as executive producer. Viviane Senna said that "the Senna family is committed in making this project something totally unique and unprecedented."

Although the series was initially scheduled to debut in 2022, production was put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In August 2022, Netflix hired Vicente Amorim (previously Good and Yakuza Princess) as the showrunner. As a Brazilian and longtime motorsport fan, Amorim was already familiar with Senna's career. He said that while Formula One had many "idols" throughout its history, Senna was its only true "hero," as he not only was talented but also "perceived time ... in a completely different way from all the rest of us." He added that he wanted to tell a story about how Senna conquered Formula One, which "had always been rigged to favor European drivers" before Senna arrived. Amorim interviewed Senna's family members to "learn more about Ayrton as a man," and was given "unprecedented access to Senna's personal archives," including recordings of phone calls and letters from Senna's junior career in England.
According to the Associated Press, Netflix spent more than $170 million to produce the series. Variety reported that Senna is the most expensive Brazilian television series in history. Gabriel Leone was cast as Senna in March 2023; he had previously worked with Amorim in the Brazilian film industry. In October 2023, Netflix announced that Amorim had finished hiring the main cast. When the cast list was released, Motor Sport remarked that it included "almost every on-track rival, partner, friend and team boss," as well as numerous individuals from Senna's personal life. 
Filming began in late 2023. The series was shot in São Paulo and Angra dos Reis, with additional filming taking place in Argentina, Uruguay, and Northern Ireland. To create period-accurate cars, Gullane hired Argentine manufacturer Crespi Automotive to build 22 replica cars for the series, including copies of every car Senna raced in his career. Additional background cars were created with CGI, when necessary. To prepare for th