Title: TOP500
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TOP500
Summary: The TOP500 project ranks and details the 500 most powerful non-distributed computer systems in the world. The project was started in 1993 and publishes an updated list of the supercomputers twice a year. The first of these updates always coincides with the International Supercomputing Conference in June, and the second is presented at the ACM/IEEE Supercomputing Conference in November. The project aims to provide a reliable basis for tracking and detecting trends in high-performance computing and bases rankings on HPL benchmarks, a portable implementation of the high-performance LINPACK benchmark written in Fortran for distributed-memory computers.
The most recent edition of TOP500 was published in June 2026. As of June 2026, China's LineShine is the most powerful supercomputer in the TOP500, reaching 2,198 petaFlops on the LINPACK benchmarks. As of submitted data until June 2026, the United States has the highest number of systems with 161 supercomputers; Japan is in second place with 44, and Germany is the third place with 41; the United States has by far the highest share of total computing power on the list (37.5%). Due to secrecy of the latest Chinese programs, publicly known supercomputer performance share in China represents only 2% that of global as of June 2025.
The TOP500 list is compiled by Jack Dongarra of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Erich Strohmaier and Horst Simon of the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL), and, until his death in 2014, Hans Meuer of the University of Mannheim, Germany. The TOP500 project also includes lists such as Green500 (measuring energy efficiency) and HPCG (measuring I/O bandwidth).

Title: Frontier (supercomputer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frontier_(supercomputer)
Summary: Hewlett Packard Enterprise Frontier, or OLCF-5, is the world's first exascale supercomputer. It is hosted at the Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility (OLCF) in Tennessee, United States, and became operational in 2022. As of November 2024, Frontier is the third fastest supercomputer in the world. It is based on the Cray EX and is the successor to Summit (OLCF-4). Frontier achieved an Rmax of 1.102 exaFLOPS, which is 1.102 quintillion floating-point operations per second, using AMD CPUs and GPUs.
Measured at 62.86 gigaflops/watt, the smaller Frontier TDS (test and development system) topped the Green500 list for most efficient supercomputer until it was dethroned in efficiency by the Flatiron Institute's Henri supercomputer in November 2022.
Frontier was superseded as the fastest supercomputer in the world by El Capitan in November 2024.

Title: Fugaku (supercomputer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fugaku_(supercomputer)
Summary: Fugaku (Japanese: 富岳) is a petascale supercomputer at the Riken Center for Computational Science in Kobe, Japan. It started development in 2014 as the successor to the K computer and made its debut in 2020. It is named after an alternative name for Mount Fuji. 
It became the fastest supercomputer in the world in the June 2020 TOP500 list as well as becoming the first ARM architecture-based computer to achieve this. At this time it also achieved 1.42 exaFLOPS using the mixed fp16/fp64 precision HPL-AI benchmark. It started regular operations in 2021. 
Fugaku was superseded as the fastest supercomputer in the world by Frontier in May 2022.

Title: Aurora (supercomputer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aurora_(supercomputer)
Summary: Aurora is an exascale supercomputer that was sponsored by the United States Department of Energy (DOE) and designed by Intel and Cray for Argonne National Laboratory. It was briefly the second fastest supercomputer in the world from November 2023 to June 2024.
The cost was estimated in 2019 to be US$500 million. Olivier Franza is the chief architect and principal investigator of this design.

Title: El Capitan (supercomputer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Capitan_(supercomputer)
Summary: Hewlett Packard Enterprise El Capitan is an exascale supercomputer, hosted at  Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in Livermore, California, United States, that became operational in 2024. It is based on the Cray EX Shasta architecture.
El Capitan was the world's fastest supercomputer in the TOP500 rankings from November 2024 to June 2026, displacing Frontier at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. El Capitan is the third exascale system deployed by the United States and its primary purpose is to support the stockpile stewardship program of the US National Nuclear Security Administration.
It was surpassed as the fastest supercomputer in the world by LineShine.