Title: Howard University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Howard_University
Summary: Howard University is a private, historically black, federally chartered research university in Washington, D.C., United States. It is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity" and accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. It is the only HBCU with R1 designation.
Established in 1867, Howard is a nonsectarian institution located in the Shaw neighborhood. It offers undergraduate, graduate, and professional degrees in more than 120 programs.

Title: Florida A&M University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florida_A%26M_University
Summary: Florida A&M University (FAMU) is a public historically black land-grant university in Tallahassee, Florida, United States. Founded in 1887, it is the third-largest historically black university in the US by enrollment and the only public historically black university in Florida. It is a member of the State University System of Florida and is accredited to award baccalaureate, master's, and doctoral degrees by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
Florida A&M sports teams are known as the Rattlers, and compete in Division I of the NCAA.  They are a member of the Southwestern Athletic Conference (SWAC).

Title: Florida State University College of Fine Arts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florida_State_University_College_of_Fine_Arts
Summary: The Florida State University College of Fine Arts, located in Tallahassee, Florida, is one of sixteen colleges comprising the Florida State University (FSU).

Title: University of Florida College of the Arts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Florida_College_of_the_Arts
Summary: The University of Florida College of the Arts is the fine arts college of the University of Florida. It was established in 1975, and is located on the university's Gainesville, Florida campus. As of 2024 the interim dean was Jennifer Setlow.
Previously named the College of Fine Arts, the college's name was changed on May 12, 2014.
The College of the Arts, one of 16 colleges and more than 150 research centers and institutes at the University of Florida, offers bachelor's, master's and Ph.D. degree programs in its three schools — the School of Art and Art History, School of Music, and School of Theatre and Dance. The college is also the home to the Center for Arts in Medicine, Center for World Arts, Digital Worlds Institute, University Galleries and the New World School of the Arts in Miami. It has more than 100 faculty members and more than 1,220 students. The college hosts more than 300 performances, exhibitions and events each year. Faculty and students also exhibit and perform at other local, national and international venues.

Title: Randy Fine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randy_Fine
Summary: Randall Adam Fine (born April 20, 1974) is an American politician and former gambling industry executive serving as the U.S. representative for Florida's 6th congressional district since April 2025. A member of the Republican Party, he previously served in the Florida Senate from 2024 to 2025 and in the Florida House of Representatives from 2016 to 2024. His congressional district covers a six-county area that includes Daytona Beach.
Born in Arizona and raised in Kentucky, Fine graduated from Harvard University with a bachelor's degree in government and earned a Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) degree from Harvard Business School in 1996. After working for McKinsey & Company and later as a teaching fellow at Harvard, Fine became a corporate executive working in the casino gambling industry. In 2016, Fine was elected to the Florida House of Representatives, serving until his election to the Florida Senate in 2024. After Mike Waltz's resignation from Congress in 2025 to become U.S. national security advisor, Fine changed his residence and won the special election for the seat with the endorsement of President Donald Trump. He is a member of the House Freedom Caucus and the Republican Study Committee.
Fine has a long history of anti-Palestinian and anti-Muslim remarks. His comments have led to strong backlash, including calls to resign, from Democratic politicians and some conservatives.