Title: Hunter Biden
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hunter_Biden
Summary: Robert Hunter Biden (born February 4, 1970) is an American artist, disbarred former attorney, and businessman. He is the second son of former president Joe Biden and his first wife, Neilia Hunter Biden. Hunter Biden was a founding board member of BHR Partners, a Chinese investment company, in 2013, and later served on the board of Burisma Holdings, one of the largest private natural gas producers in Ukraine, from 2014 until his term expired in April 2019. He has worked as a lobbyist and legal representative for lobbying firms, a hedge fund principal, and a venture capital and private equity fund investor.
Since early 2019, Hunter and his father have been the targets of false allegations that Joe pressured Ukraine to fire their Prosecutor General to protect Hunter, which intensified after the New York Post published an article in October 2020 about a laptop computer that had belonged to Hunter Biden. Biden was convicted of three federal firearms-related felony charges in June 2024 after he had admitted to illegally owning a gun while a drug user. His tax affairs came under federal criminal investigation in late 2018, and in September 2024, he pleaded guilty to all of the tax charges.
In December 2024, Biden's father pardoned him for all federal offenses committed between 2014 and 2024, including any potential offenses not yet discovered. In 2025, he was disbarred in both Washington, D.C. and by the Connecticut bar, which he had entered soon after graduating from law school.  In 2025, he began working as the development director for a nonprofit tenants' rights organization.

Title: BRICS
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BRICS
Summary: BRICS is an international organization currently comprising ten countries: Brazil, China, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Russia, South Africa and the United Arab Emirates. 
Its conceptual origins were articulated by Russian foreign minister Yevgeny Primakov in 1998, and can be traced to informal forums and dialogue groups such as RIC (Russia, India, and China) and IBSA (India, Brazil, and South Africa). BRIC was originally a term coined by British economist Jim O'Neill, and later championed by his employer Goldman Sachs in 2001, to designate a group of emerging markets. 
The bloc's inaugural summit was held in 2009 and featured the founding countries of Brazil, Russia, India, and China; they adopted the acronym BRIC and formed an informal diplomatic group where their governments could meet annually at formal summits and coordinate multilateral policies. South Africa joined the organization in September 2010, which was then renamed BRICS, and attended the third summit in 2011 as a full member. Iran, Egypt, Ethiopia, and the United Arab Emirates attended their first summit as member states in 2024 in Russia. Indonesia officially joined in early 2025, becoming the first Southeast Asian member. Saudi Arabia was invited at the Johannesburg summit and it is considered part of the organisation, but has not publicly confirmed its membership. The term BRICS+ has been informally used to reflect new membership since 2024.
Collectively, BRICS comprises more than a quarter of the global economy and nearly half the world's population. The group has established multilateral institutions and financial mechanisms, such as the New Development Bank, the BRICS Contingent Reserve Arrangement, and the BRICS PAY payment platform. It has also promoted de-dollarization initiatives to increase trade settlements in national currencies.
Some commentators consider BRICS the alternative to the G7, and a major political force in the global international order. Others describe it as an incoherent affiliation of disparate countries centered on increasing anti-European and anti-American objectives. Nevertheless, all five original members, as well as Indonesia, are also part of the G20. BRICS has received both praise and criticism from numerous commentators and world leaders.

Title: Second presidential transition of Donald Trump
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_presidential_transition_of_Donald_Trump
Summary: Donald Trump's second presidential transition began when he won the United States presidential election on November 5, 2024, and became the president-elect. Trump had become president-elect once the election results became clear on November 6, 2024, the day after the election. Trump was formally elected by the Electoral College on December 17, 2024. The results were certified by a joint session of Congress on January 6, 2025, and the transition concluded when Trump was inaugurated on January 20, 2025.

Title: Chip Roy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chip_Roy
Summary: Charles Eugene "Chip" Roy (born August 7, 1972) is an American attorney and politician serving as the U.S. representative for Texas's 21st congressional district since 2019. Previously, he was Senator Ted Cruz's chief of staff and first assistant attorney general of Texas under Ken Paxton. He is a member of the Republican Party.
Roy was first elected to Congress in 2018. He is a member and policy chair of the House Freedom Caucus. In 2026, he ran for Texas Attorney General, losing the Republican nomination to state senator Mayes Middleton in a runoff.

Title: 2026 California Proposition 40
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_California_Proposition_40
Summary: Proposition 40, also known as the California billionaire tax or California wealth tax, is a combined initiated constitutional amendment and state statute that will appear on the November 3, 2026, ballot in the state of California.
If approved by voters, the state's billionaires would pay a one-time 5 percent tax on their accumulated wealth. Revenue from the tax would primarily fund state healthcare programs, with a smaller portion going toward food assistance and public education. The initiative was sponsored by labor union SEIU United Healthcare Workers West.