Title: St. Louis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._Louis
Summary: St. Louis (officially the City of St. Louis) is an independent city in the U.S. state of Missouri. It lies near the confluence of the Mississippi and the Missouri rivers. In 2020, the city proper had a population of 301,578, while its metropolitan area, which extends into Illinois, had an estimated population of over 2.8 million. It is the largest metropolitan area in Missouri and the second-largest in Illinois. The city's metropolitan statistical area is the 23rd-largest in the United States.
The land that became St. Louis had been occupied by Native American cultures for thousands of years before European settlement. The city was founded on February 14, 1764, by French fur traders Gilbert Antoine de St. Maxent, Pierre Laclède, and Auguste Chouteau. They named it for King Louis IX of France, and it quickly became the regional center of the French Illinois Country. In 1804, the United States acquired St. Louis as part of the Louisiana Purchase. In the 19th century, St. Louis developed as a major port on the Mississippi River; from 1870 until the 1920 census, it was the fourth-largest city in the country. It separated from St. Louis County in 1877, becoming an independent city and limiting its political boundaries. In 1904, it hosted the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, also known as the St. Louis World's Fair, and the Summer Olympics.
St. Louis is designated as one of 173 global cities by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network. The GDP of Greater St. Louis was $226.6 billion in 2023. St. Louis has a diverse economy with strengths in the service, manufacturing, trade, transportation, and aviation industries. It is home to fourteen Fortune 1000 companies, seven of which are also Fortune 500 companies. Federal agencies headquartered in the city or with significant operations there include the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
The city's attractions include the 630-foot (192 m) Gateway Arch, the Saint Louis Zoo, Forest Park, the City Museum, the Missouri Botanical Garden, the Saint Louis Science Center, and the Saint Louis Art Museum.
Major research universities in Greater St. Louis include Washington University in St. Louis, Saint Louis University, and the University of Missouri–St. Louis. The Washington University Medical Center hosts an agglomeration of medical and pharmaceutical institutions, including Barnes-Jewish Hospital. St. Louis has four professional sports teams: the St. Louis Cardinals of Major League Baseball, the St. Louis Blues of the National Hockey League, St. Louis City SC of Major League Soccer, and the St. Louis Battlehawks of the United Football League.

Title: Basilica of Saint Louis, King of France
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basilica_of_Saint_Louis,_King_of_France
Summary: The Basilica of Saint Louis, King of France (French: Basilique Saint-Louis-Roi-de-France), formerly the Cathedral of Saint Louis, and colloquially the Old Cathedral, is a Catholic church in St. Louis, Missouri. It was the first cathedral west of the Mississippi River and until 1844 the only parish church in St. Louis. It is one of two Catholic basilicas in St. Louis (with the current cathedral) and both are named for King Louis IX of France, the city's namesake.
The current structure (built 1831–1834) is located near the historic riverfront of St. Louis. It is surrounded by Gateway Arch National Park. However, the church is not part of the park. Because of the historical significance of the church, it was left intact while all neighboring buildings were demolished to make way for the Gateway Arch and related park. Rev. Nicholas Smith serves as Rector.
The basilica serves as a personal parish church rather than a territorial parish church. It ranks  177th of 196 churches in number of Catholics per church in the Archdiocese of St. Louis.  However, because of its historical significance (and its location along the Mississippi River near the iconic Arch), the basilica remains a popular church for marriage ceremonies in the archdiocese (ranking second of 196 churches) and a popular tourist destination.

Title: University of Missouri–St. Louis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Missouri%E2%80%93St._Louis
Summary: The University of Missouri–St. Louis (UMSL) is a public research university in St. Louis County, Missouri, United States. Established in 1963, it is the newest of the four universities in the University of Missouri System. Located on the former grounds of Bellerive Country Club, the university's campus stretches into the municipalities of Bellerive Acres (formerly "Bellerive"), Bel-Nor, Cool Valley, and Normandy. Additional facilities are located at the former site of Marillac College and at Grand Center, both in St. Louis city.
Bachelor's, Master's, and doctoral programs are offered through the College of Arts and Sciences, the College of Business Administration, the College of Education, the College of Nursing, the School of Social Work, and the College of Optometry. The business school is AACSB-accredited and is the only public university in the St. Louis area to also be AACSB-accredited in accounting. Preprofessional, a joint engineering program with Washington University in St. Louis, and evening programs are also offered. UMSL is home of an optometry school, providing its students with a doctorate (OD). The Pierre Laclede Honors College is UMSL's honors program. UMSL is classified among "R2: Doctoral Universities – High research activity".
For the fall 2023 semester, UMSL had 8,023 students attending classes on-campus, compared to 6,792 students taking classes off-campus, which was primarily students dual-enrolled at area high schools. The university had the equivalent of 5,654 full-time students. UMSL has historically been a commuter school for the St. Louis area.

Title: Tishaura Jones
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tishaura_Jones
Summary: Tishaura Oneda Jones ( tish-AR-ə; born March 10, 1972) is an American politician who served as the 47th mayor of St. Louis, Missouri from 2021 to 2025. A member of the Missouri Democratic Party, Jones previously served from 2008 to 2013 in the Missouri House of Representatives, and as Treasurer of the City of St. Louis from 2013 to 2021.
Born in St. Louis to a former city comptroller, Jones studied at Hampton University in Virginia, returning to St. Louis upon graduating in 1994. Following a failed attempt to start a restaurant that left her bankrupt, she entered nursing, graduating from the Saint Louis University College for Public Health with a Master of Health Administration in 2001 and working for Cardinal Glennon Children's Hospital for two years.
A self-described progressive, Jones entered politics in 2002, when she was appointed to the Democratic Party Central Committee for St. Louis's eighth ward. In 2008, she was elected to represent Missouri's 63rd District in the state legislature, defeating independent candidate Nels Williams with 85.4 percent of the vote. She ran unopposed for re-election to the House in 2010.
In 2012, Jones ran for St. Louis Treasurer and won the general election with 77.9 percent of the vote. She was re-elected to the office in 2016 and 2020.
Jones was elected as Mayor of St. Louis in the 2021 mayoral election, narrowly defeating St. Louis Alderwoman Cara Spencer with 51.7 percent of the vote, becoming the first African-American female mayor in the city's history. In the 2025 mayoral election, a rematch of the 2021 election, Jones lost to Spencer in a landslide, garnering 35.83% of the vote.

Title: Cara Spencer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cara_Spencer
Summary: Cara Spencer (born September 11, 1978) is an American politician serving as the 48th and current mayor of St. Louis, Missouri. She served on the St. Louis Board of Aldermen as alderwoman of Ward 8 from 2023 to 2025; she represented Ward 20 from 2015 to 2023. 
Spencer ran in the 2021 St. Louis mayoral election, finishing second in the primary election, then losing the general election to Tishaura Jones. In the 2025 election, she waged a political comeback, and defeated Jones. She is the city's third consecutive female mayor.