Title: 2024 United States presidential election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_United_States_presidential_election
Summary: Presidential elections were held in the United States on November 5, 2024. The Republican ticket of former president Donald Trump and Ohio junior senator JD Vance defeated the Democratic ticket of incumbent vice president Kamala Harris and Minnesota governor Tim Walz.
The incumbent president, Joe Biden of the Democratic Party, initially ran for re-election, easily sweeping aside a challenge from Democratic representative Dean Phillips of Minnesota in the Democratic primaries to become the party's presumptive nominee. However, what was broadly considered a poor debate performance in June 2024 intensified concerns about his age and health, and led to calls within his party for him to leave the race. After initially declining to do so, Biden ultimately withdrew from the race on July 21, 2024, becoming the first eligible incumbent president to run but subsequently withdraw since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968. Biden immediately endorsed Harris, who officially became the party's presidential nominee on August 5 and the first presidential nominee who did not participate in the primaries since Vice President Hubert Humphrey in 1968. Harris selected Walz as her running mate.
Trump, who lost the 2020 presidential election to Biden, ran for reelection to a nonconsecutive second term. Trump became the presumptive Republican Party's presidential nominee on March 12, 2024, easily defeating challengers such as former South Carolina governor Nikki Haley and Florida governor Ron DeSantis in the Republican primaries. He was shot in the ear in an assassination attempt on July 13, 2024. Trump was nominated as the Republican Party's presidential candidate during the 2024 Republican National Convention alongside his running mate, JD Vance. The Trump campaign ticket supported mass deportation of illegal immigrants; an isolationist "America First" and "peace through strength" foreign policy agenda with support of Israel in the Gaza war and skepticism of Ukraine in its war with Russia; policies hostile to transgender Americans; and greatly increased import tariffs. The campaign also made false and misleading statements, including claims of electoral fraud in 2020. Historians and some former Trump administrators saw his political movement as authoritarian.
Trump won the election over Harris, with 312 Electoral College votes to Harris's 226. Trump won all of the top seven swing states, including Nevada for the Republicans' first time since 2004. Trump won the national popular vote with a plurality of 49.8%, making him the first Republican to win the popular vote since George W. Bush in 2004 (unlike his 2016 victory and 2020 defeat). Trump's victory made him the second U.S. president to be elected to a nonconsecutive second term, after Grover Cleveland in 1892. Surveys of 2024 election voters, nationally and in key states, found that many viewed economic conditions negatively and were motivated by the issue when they voted. Other issues that motivated voters included immigration, the state of democracy, and abortion.

Title: 2024 United States presidential election in Maine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Maine
Summary: The 2024 United States presidential election in Maine took place on Tuesday, November 5, 2024, as part of the 2024 United States presidential election in which all 50 states plus the District of Columbia  participated. Maine voters chose electors to represent them in the Electoral College via a popular vote. The state of Maine has four electoral votes in the Electoral College, following reapportionment due to the 2020 United States census in which the state neither gained nor lost a seat. This election coincided with five referendum questions including a referendum to change the state flag, as well as a U.S. Senate election, U.S. House elections for the state's two congressional districts and various other state, county and local elections. The state uses ranked-choice voting.
Most polls and analysts accurately predicted Maine to remain in the Democratic camp at large in the 2024 election. Indeed, Harris won Maine at-large by about 6.9%, worse than Biden but better than Clinton, and with the largest raw vote total of any presidential candidate in the state's history. As expected, Harris won Maine's 1st congressional district while Trump won Maine's 2nd congressional district, both with majorities of the vote.

Title: 2024 United States presidential election in Minnesota
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Minnesota
Summary: The 2024 United States presidential election in Minnesota took place on Tuesday, November 5, 2024, as part of the 2024 United States elections in which all 50 states plus the District of Columbia participated. Minnesota voters chose electors to represent them in the Electoral College via a popular vote. The state of Minnesota has 10 electoral votes in the Electoral College, following reapportionment due to the 2020 United States census in which the state neither gained nor lost a seat.
Harris selected Minnesota Governor Tim Walz as her running mate. This decision was seen as a strategic effort to bolster support in the Midwest as well as among progressives. Walz's local popularity, progressive stances, and his record of addressing state-level issues were expected to positively influence voter turnout in Minnesota, and potentially secure the state for the Democratic ticket.
Harris won the state by 4.24 points, marking the thirteenth consecutive Democratic presidential win in Minnesota, the longest active such streak of any U.S. state. Prior to the election, all major news organizations considered Minnesota a state Harris would win, or otherwise a lean to likely blue state. 
Although Harris won the state, the state still shifted rightward by 3% despite it being Walz's home state. Nearly all counties in the state shifted rightward, with the exceptions of Cook, Lake and Lincoln counties, which recorded minor shifts to the left. This was part of all 50 states and D.C. shifting rightward in this election, also including Harris’ home state of California. By contrast, Trump improved in his running mate's home state of Ohio and massively improved in his home state of Florida. 
Republican nominee Donald Trump was able to flip four counties that Joe Biden had won four years prior: Carlton, Blue Earth, Nicollet, and Winona. This was the first presidential election since 1928 in which Carlton County voted Republican.

Title: 2024 United States presidential election in New Jersey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_New_Jersey
Summary: The 2024 United States presidential election in New Jersey took place on Tuesday, November 5, 2024, as part of the 2024 United States elections in which all 50 states plus the District of Columbia participated. New Jersey voters chose electors to represent them in the Electoral College via a popular vote. The state of New Jersey has 14 electoral votes in the Electoral College, following reapportionment due to the 2020 United States census in which the state neither gained nor lost a seat.
New Jersey has backed the Democratic candidate in every presidential election since 1992. Kamala Harris was widely expected to win the state, which she did by a 5.91% margin, marking the first single-digit margin of victory for a Democrat in the state since 2004. This is the closest a Republican has come to winning in New Jersey since 1992.
While Trump gained nearly 100,000 votes from 2020, Harris received nearly 400,000 fewer votes than Biden. Trump received the most votes in New Jersey of any Republican presidential nominee, surpassing Ronald Reagan's 1984 raw vote total.
New Jersey had the second-largest swing to the right from the 2020 election after neighboring New York. New Jersey joined most other blue and blue-leaning states such as New York and California in seeing significant rightward shifts in 2024. New Jersey was also the only state that voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 and Joe Biden in 2020 by double digits that Harris won by a single digit margin in 2024.

Title: 2028 United States presidential election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2028_United_States_presidential_election
Summary: Presidential elections are scheduled to be held in the United States on November 7, 2028, to elect the president and vice president to a four-year term, with the winners scheduled to be inaugurated on January 20, 2029. 
Incumbent Republican president Donald Trump is ineligible to run for a third term due to the term limits established by the 22nd Amendment to the United States Constitution. As a result, this is the first election since 2012 where Trump is not the Republican nominee. This is also set to be the first election since 1884 where an incumbent president is not on the ballot in two consecutive elections.