Title: Al-Nassr FC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al-Nassr_FC
Summary: Al-Nassr Football Club, commonly known as Al-Nassr or simply Nassr (Arabic: نادي النصر), is a Saudi Arabian professional association football club based in Riyadh. Founded in 1955, the club competes in the Saudi Pro League, the top tier of football in Saudi Arabia, and is one of three teams never relegated from the top flight.

Title: Al-Ahli Saudi FC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al-Ahli_Saudi_FC
Summary: Al-Ahli Saudi Football Club (Arabic: النادي الأهلي السعودي, romanized: an-nādī al-ʾahlī as-saʿūdī, lit. 'Saudi National Club'), commonly known as Al-Ahli, is a Saudi professional football club based in Jeddah. It competes in the Saudi Pro League, the top tier of Saudi football. 
Since its founding in 1937, the club has been known as one of the most successful clubs in Saudi Arabia.  Domestically, Al-Ahli has won 9 Saudi Professional Leagues, 8 Kings Cups, 6 Crown Prince Cups, 2 Super Cups and 3 Federations Cups. In international club football, they have won 2 AFC Champions League Elite, a record equal of three GCC Champions League and one Arab Club Championship. Al-Ahli was the first Saudi club to win the league and the King's Cup in the same season, and has done so twice - in 1978 and 2016.
Al-Ahli was one of the four founding members of the Saudi Pro League and had never been relegated from the top flight until the 2021–22 season. The other three are Al-Hilal, Al-Ittihad, and Al-Nassr. Al-Ahli hold the record for the longest unbeaten run in the league with their 51-match unbeaten streak from 2014 to 2016.
Al-Ahli's home games are played at King Abdullah Sports City, also known as the shining jewel Stadium. The stadium, which is shared with long-lasting city rivals Al-Ittihad since 2014 and Jeddah FC, is the second-largest stadium in Saudi Arabia, with a total capacity of approximately 63,000.

Title: Al Shabab Club
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Shabab_Club
Summary: Al-Shabab Saudi Football Club also known as Al-Shabab (Arabic: نادي الشباب لكرة القدم, romanized: nādī al-shabaab li-kurat al-qadam, lit. 'The Youth Football Club') is a Saudi Arabian professional football club based in Riyadh that competes in the Saudi Pro League. Founded in 1947 as Shabab Al-Riyadh (شباب الرياض; lit. 'Riyadh Youth'), it was renamed Al-Shabab in 1967.
The club earned its name, "Shabab," meaning "youth" in Arabic, due to its emphasis on developing young players at its inception. Unlike its rivals, which primarily featured senior players, the club focused on nurturing youth talent. This distinction persisted for many years, becoming a defining characteristic of the club. As a result, the club became renowned for its commitment to youth development.

Title: Al Taawoun FC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Taawoun_FC
Summary: Al-Taawoun FC (Arabic: نادي التعاون) is a Saudi Arabian professional football and multi-sports club based in Buraidah, Saudi Arabia, that competes in the Saudi Pro League, the top tier of the Saudi football league system.
The club plays its home matches at King Abdullah Sport City Stadium, located in the city of Buraidah, which it shares with city rivals Al-Raed, with whom it contests the Qassim Derby. Additionally, the club uses the smaller Al-Taawoun Stadium for less prominent fixtures. The name "Al Taawoun" translates to "cooperation" in Arabic.

Title: Al Wasl F.C.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Wasl_F.C.
Summary: Al-Wasl Football Club (Arabic: نادي الوصل لكرة القدم) is an Emirati professional football club based in Zabeel, Dubai that competes in the UAE Pro League.
The club plays its home games at Zabeel Stadium. Al-Wasl is among the most successful clubs in the United Arab Emirates, having won eight UAE Pro League titles, most recently in the 2023–24 season.
The club gained significant international attention in 2011 and 2012, while Diego Maradona was the club's head coach.