Title: Nigeria
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nigeria
Summary: Nigeria, officially the Federal Republic of Nigeria, is a country in West Africa between the Sahel to the north and the Gulf of Guinea in the Atlantic Ocean to the south. It covers an area of 923,769 square kilometres (356,669 mi2). With a population of more than 242 million, it is the most populous country in Africa, and the world's sixth-most populous country. Nigeria borders Niger in the north, Chad in the northeast, Cameroon in the east, and Benin in the west. Nigeria is a federal republic comprising 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, where its capital, Abuja, is located. The largest city in Nigeria by population is Lagos, one of the largest metropolitan areas in the world and the second largest in Africa.
Nigeria is a multinational state inhabited by more than 250 ethnic groups speaking 500 distinct languages, all identifying with a wide variety of cultures. The three largest ethnic groups are the Hausa, Yoruba, and Igbo together constituting over 60% of the total population. The official language is English. Nigeria's constitution ensures freedom of religion. The country is divided roughly in half between Muslims and Christians; indigenous religions, such as those native to the Igbo and Yoruba ethnicities, are in the minority.
Nigeria has been home to several indigenous material cultures, pre-colonial states and kingdoms since the second millennium BC. The Nok culture, c. 1500 BC, marks one of the earliest known civilisations in the region. The Hausa Kingdoms inhabited the north, with the Edo Kingdom of Benin in the south, the Igbo Kingdom of Nri in the southeast, and in the southwest the Yoruba Empire of Oyo. The present-day territory of Nigeria was home to a vast array of city-states. In the early 19th century, the Fulani Jihads culminated in the Sokoto Caliphate. The modern state originated with British colonialization in the 19th century, taking its present territorial shape with the merging of the Southern Nigeria Protectorate and the Northern Nigeria Protectorate in 1914. The British set up administrative and legal structures and incorporated traditional monarchs as a form of indirect rule. 
Nigeria officially gained independence as a federation on 1 October 1960. From 1967 to 1970, the country was ravaged by civil war, followed by a series of military dictatorships (as well as an unstable democracy from 1979 to 1983), until a stable democracy was established in 1999. However, the work of the Nigerian Electoral Commission (INEC) has been criticised both nationally and internationally for lacking transparency.
Nigeria is one of Africa’s largest economies, alongside South Africa and Egypt. It is regarded as an emerging market by the World Bank. Nigeria is a regional power in Africa and a middle power in international affairs. Nigeria is a founding member of the African Union and a member of many international organisations, including the United Nations, the Commonwealth of Nations, NAM, the Economic Community of West African States, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and OPEC.

Title: Economy of Nigeria
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_Nigeria
Summary: Nigeria has a lower-middle-income, mixed economy and emerging market, with expanding manufacturing, financial, service, communications, technology, and entertainment sectors. It is ranked as the 52nd-largest economy in the world in terms of nominal GDP, the second largest in Africa in terms of purchasing power parity, and the 19th-largest in terms of purchasing power parity. The country's re-emergent manufacturing sector became the largest on the continent in 2013, and it produces a large proportion of goods and services for the region of West Africa. Nigeria's debt-to-GDP ratio was 36.63% in 2021 according to the IMF.
Although oil revenues contributed 2/3 of state revenues, oil only contributes about 9% to the GDP. Nigeria produces about 2.7% of the world's oil supply. The largely subsistence agricultural sector has not kept up with the country's rapid population growth. It was once a large net exporter of food, but currently imports some of its food products. Mechanization has led to a manufacturing resurgence and food export and there was consequently a move towards food sufficiency.
In 2006, Nigeria came to an agreement with the Paris Club to buy back the bulk of its owed debts from them, in exchange for a cash payment of roughly US$12 billion. According to a report by Citigroup, published in February 2011, Nigeria had the highest projected average GDP growth in the world between 2010 and 2050. Nigeria is one of two countries from Africa among the 11 Global Growth Generators countries.

Title: List of waterfalls
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_waterfalls
Summary: This list of notable waterfalls of the world is sorted by continent, then country, then province, state or territory. A waterfall is included if it is at least 15 m (50 ft) tall, or it is considered significant.
There is no standard way to measure the height or width of a waterfall. No ranking of waterfalls should be assumed because of the heights or widths provided in the list. Many numbers are estimated and measurements may be imprecise. See additional lists of waterfalls by height, flow rate and type.

Title: Adamawa State
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adamawa_State
Summary: Adamawa () is a state in the North-East geopolitical zone of Nigeria, bordered by Borno to the northwest, Gombe to the west, and Taraba to the southwest while its eastern border forms part of the national border with Cameroon. It takes its name from the historic emirate of Adamawa, with the emirate's old capital of Yola serving as the capital city of Adamawa State. The state was formed in 1991 when the former Gongola State was broken up into Adamawa and Taraba states. The state is one of the most heterogeneous in Nigeria, having over 100 indigenous ethnic groups.
Of the 36 states, Adamawa is the eighth largest in the area, but the thirteenth least populous with an estimated population of about 4.25 million as of 2016. Geographically, the state is mainly composed of highlands and mountains (the Atlantika, Mandara, and the Shebshi ranges) and the Adamawa Plateau crossed by valleys and rivers, most notably the Benue and Gongola rivers. The lowlands of Adamawa are all part of the West Sudanian savanna in the north and the wetter Guinean forest-savanna mosaic in parts of the south, while elevated areas are parts of the Mandara Plateau mosaic and Cameroonian Highlands forests ecoregions. In the extreme south of the state is part of the Gashaka Gumti National Park, a large wildlife park that contains large populations of bushbuck, African buffalo, patas monkey, black-and-white colobus, giant pangolin, and hippopotamus along with some of Nigeria's last remaining Nigeria-Cameroon chimpanzee, African leopard, and African golden cat populations.
What is now known as Adamawa state has been inhabited for years by various ethnic groups, including the Verre, Tsobo, Bwatiye (Bachama), Bali, Bata (Gbwata), Gudu, Mbula-Bwazza, and Nungurab (Lunguda) in the central region; the Kamwe in the north and central region; the Jibu in the far south; the Kilba, Mafa, Marghi, and Waga in the north, and the Kwah [Bah], Mumuye in the south while the Fulani live throughout the state, often as nomadic herders. Adamawa is also religiously diverse as about 50% of the population is Sunni Muslim and 40% is Christian (mainly Lutheran, EYN, ECWA, and Pentecostal), while the remaining 10% are adherents of traditional ethnic religions.
As an agriculturally-based state, the Adamawa State economy mainly relies on livestock and crops, such as cotton, groundnuts, millet, cassava, guinea corn, and yams. Due to the Boko Haram insurgency affecting development in the state, Adamawa has the eleventh lowest Human Development Index in the country but as the insurgency has abated since 2016 due to terrorist infighting, development has been renewed.

Title: Yorubaland
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yorubaland
Summary: Yorubaland (Yoruba: Ilẹ̀ Káàárọ̀-Oòjíire ) is the homeland and cultural region of the Yoruba people in West Africa. It spans the modern-day countries of Nigeria, Benin and Togo, and covers a total land area of 142,114 km2 (54,871 sq mi). Of this land area, 106,016 km2 (74.6%) lies within Nigeria, 18.9% in Benin, and the remaining 6.5% is in Togo. Prior to European colonization, this area consisted of multiple states, including most prominently the Ọyọ Empire, Ifẹ Empire and Ijẹbu Kingdom. The geo-cultural space contains an estimated 55 million people, the majority of this population being ethnic Yoruba.