Title: Ontario
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ontario
Summary: Ontario is the southernmost province of Canada. Located in Central Canada, Ontario is the country's most populous province. As of the 2021 Canadian census, it is home to over 14 million people, which is  approximately 38.5% of the country's population. Ontario is the second-largest province by total area, after Quebec, and the fourth-largest jurisdiction of all the Canadian provinces and territories. It is home to the nation's capital, Ottawa, and its most populous city, Toronto, which is Ontario's provincial capital.
Ontario is bordered by the province of Manitoba to the west, Hudson Bay and James Bay to the north, and Quebec to the east and northeast. To the south, it is bordered by the U.S. states of (from west to east) Minnesota, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania (through Lake Erie), and New York. Almost all of Ontario's 2,700-kilometre (1,700 mi) border with the United States follows rivers and lakes: from the westerly Lake of the Woods, eastward along the major rivers and lakes of the Great Lakes drainage system. There is only about one kilometre (0.62 mi) of actual land border, made up of portages including Height of Land Portage on the Minnesota border.
The great majority of Ontario's population and arable land are in Southern Ontario, and while agriculture remains a significant industry, the region's economy depends highly on manufacturing. In contrast, Northern Ontario is sparsely populated with cold winters and heavy forestation, with mining and forestry making up the region's major industries.

Title: Governor General of Canada
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_General_of_Canada
Summary: The governor general of Canada (French: gouverneure générale du Canada) is the federal representative of the Canadian monarch, currently King Charles III. The monarch of Canada is also sovereign and head of state of 14 other Commonwealth realms and resides in the United Kingdom. The monarch, on the advice of his or her Canadian prime minister, appoints a governor general to administer the government of Canada in the monarch's name. The commission is for an indefinite period—known as serving at His Majesty's pleasure—but is usually for five years. Since 1959, it has also been traditional to alternate between francophone and anglophone officeholders. The 31st and current governor general is Louise Arbour, who was sworn in on 8 June 2026.
As the sovereign's representative, the governor general carries out the day-to-day constitutional and ceremonial duties of the monarch. The constitutional duties include appointing lieutenant governors, Supreme Court justices, and senators; signing orders-in-council; summoning, proroguing, and dissolving the federal parliament; granting royal assent to bills; calling elections; and signing commissions for officers of the Canadian Armed Forces. The ceremonial duties include delivering the speech from the throne at the state opening of parliament; accepting letters of credence from incoming ambassadors; and distributing honours, decorations, and medals. Per the tenets of responsible government, the governor general acts almost always (except on the matter of honours) on the advice of the prime minister.
The office began in the 17th century, when the French Crown appointed governors of the colony of Canada and, following the British conquest of the colony in 1763, the British monarch appointed governors of the Province of Quebec (later the Canadas). Consequently, the office is, along with the Crown, the oldest continuous institution in Canada. The present version of the office emerged with Canadian Confederation and the passing of the British North America Act, 1867.
Although the post initially represented the government of the United Kingdom, the office was gradually Canadianized until, with the passage of the Statute of Westminster, 1931, and the establishment of a separate and uniquely Canadian monarchy, the governor general became the direct personal representative of the independently Canadian sovereign (the monarch in his Canadian council). Throughout this process of gradually increasing Canadian independence, the role of governor general took on additional responsibilities, such as acting as commander-in-chief of the Canadian militia in the monarch's stead, and, in 1927, the first official international visit by a governor general was made. In 1947, King George VI issued letters patent allowing the viceroy to exercise almost all powers on behalf of the monarch. As a matter of law, however, the governor general is not in the same constitutional position as the sovereign; the office itself does not, as such, possess any powers of the royal prerogative. Any constitutional amendment that affects the Crown, including the office of governor general, requires the unanimous consent of each provincial legislative assembly as well as the Senate and House of Commons of Canada.

Title: Chinese head tax
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_head_tax
Summary: The Chinese Head Tax was a fixed fee exclusively charged to Chinese persons entering Canada. The Head Tax was first levied after the Canadian parliament passed the Chinese Immigration Act of 1885, and it was designed solely to restrict Chinese immigration after the completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR), through the use of escalating fees. This policy was a state-sanctioned agreement meant to privilege and favour European settlers, while exploiting people of color and making it economically unfeasible for Chinese people to immigrate to Canada.  It was a blatant demonstration of the “racial contract” at play, designed to uphold a white supremacy ideology and maintain a “White Canada”. Not only did the policy enforce the social separation of Chinese families and attempt to prevent the establishment of Chinese communities in Canada, but it created lasting effects on family structure and emotional well-being. 
This policy marked a period of legislated anti-Chinese racism and reinforced a racial hierarchy in which White immigrants were viewed as superior, and Chinese immigrants were marked as a “subperson” class, deemed unfit for citizenship, yet welcomed only for cheap and disposable labor.  The Electoral Franchise Act (1885) which disenfranchised Chinese immigrants, further cemented their racial and political inferiority. Alongside the Head Tax, various other pieces of discriminatory legislation were later imposed on Chinese people, limiting their economic opportunities, denying them equal rights, and eventually resulting in the Chinese Immigration Act of 1923, which outright prevented all Chinese immigration except for that of business people, clergy, educators, students, and some others.  The legacy of this systemic discrimination persisted long after these acts were repealed, and continues to fuel modern-day conversations about anti-Asian racism in Canada.

Title: List of European countries by minimum wage
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_European_countries_by_minimum_wage
Summary: The following list provides information relating to the minimum wages (gross) of countries in Europe.
The calculations are based on the assumption of a 40-hour working week and a 52-week year, with the exceptions of France (35 hours), Belgium (38 hours), United Kingdom (38 hours), Germany (38 hours), Ireland (39 hours) and Monaco (39 hours). Most minimum wages are fixed at a monthly rate, but some countries set their minimum wage at an hourly rate or annual rate.

Title: Premiership of Mark Carney
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Premiership_of_Mark_Carney
Summary: Mark Carney's current tenure as prime minister of Canada began on March 14, 2025, when he accepted an invitation from Mary Simon, the governor general of Canada, to form the 30th Canadian Ministry and become the 24th Prime Minister of Canada. He succeeded Prime Minister Justin Trudeau as leader of the Liberal Party in the 2025 leadership election after he announced his intent to resign as the party leader and prime minister. Shortly after taking office, Carney advised the governor general to dissolve Parliament and trigger the 2025 federal election, where he led his Liberals to win a plurality of seats in the House of Commons of Canada, forming a minority government.
Upon taking the oath of office, Carney became the first Canadian prime minister born in any of its territories (as opposed to provinces) and the third born west of Ontario, after Joe Clark and Kim Campbell. He is the second prime minister to have earned a PhD, after William Lyon Mackenzie King. Additionally, he is the first to have never served in prior elected office, and the first since John Turner not to be sitting in the House of Commons at time of appointment. In his first act as prime minister, Carney signed a prime ministerial directive to end the consumer carbon tax by April 1, while ensuring that April's carbon rebate continues. The directive was affirmed by an order in council signed by Governor General Mary Simon. Carney's first foreign visits were to France and the United Kingdom on March 17 to strengthen mutual security and sovereignty. The 2025 Speech from the Throne was delivered by King Charles III as part of his 2025 royal tour of Canada, outlining the government's first priorities following the election.
Carney's appointment occurred against the backdrop of Donald Trump's victory in the 2024 United States presidential election and his threats to impose sweeping tariffs on Canada and even annex it. This period coincided with a dramatic turnaround in the Liberal Party's fortunes: the party had been more than 20 points behind in the polls when Trudeau announced his resignation, but soon after Carney was sworn in as prime minister, the polling gap had been eliminated, and the Liberals were in the lead, putting them in striking distance of a majority government. Analysts described the scale of their political turnaround as having "little precedent" in Canadian history. After multiple floor-crossings between late 2025 and early 2026, the Carney government achieved majority status in April 2026 (after by-elections were held to fill several vacant seats).