Title: Geert Groote
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geert_Groote
Summary: Gerard Groote (October 1340 – 20 August 1384), otherwise Gerrit or Gerhard Groet, in Latin Gerardus Magnus, was a Dutch Catholic deacon, who was a popular preacher and the founder of the Brethren of the Common Life. He was a key figure in the Devotio Moderna movement.

Title: Ca' Pesaro
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ca%27_Pesaro
Summary: Ca' Pesaro is a Baroque marble palace turned art museum, facing the Grand Canal of Venice, Italy. Today it is one of the 11 museums run by the Fondazione Musei Civici di Venezia system.
The building was originally designed by Baldassarre Longhena in the mid-17th century, the construction was completed by Gian Antonio Gaspari in 1710. As at Longhena's Ca' Rezzonico, a double order of colossal columns and colonnettes flanking arch-headed windows, reinterpreting a motif of Jacopo Sansovino, Longhena creates the impression of double loggias extending across the main Grand Canal frontage, above a boldly rusticated basement.

Title: Moderna
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moderna
Summary: Moderna, Inc. ( mə-DUR-nə) is an American pharmaceutical and biotechnology company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, that focuses on RNA therapeutics, primarily mRNA vaccines. These vaccines use a copy of a molecule called messenger RNA (mRNA) to carry instructions for proteins to produce an immune response. The company's name is derived from the terms "modified", "RNA", and "modern".
The company's commercial products are the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine sold under the brand names Spikevax and Mnexspike, a respiratory syncytial virus vaccine sold under the brand name Mresvia, and an influenza vaccine sold under the brand name Mflusiva. The company has 44 treatment and vaccine candidates, of which 37 have entered clinical trials. Candidates include possible vaccines for influenza, HIV, Epstein–Barr virus, the Nipah virus, chikungunya, human metapneumovirus, varicella zoster virus, as well as a cytomegalovirus vaccine, a Zika virus vaccine funded by the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, and three cancer vaccines.
In 2026, Time ranked Moderna as number one in their World's Most Impactful Companies list.

Title: Derrick Rossi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Derrick_Rossi
Summary: Derrick J. Rossi (born 5 February 1966), is a Canadian stem cell biologist and entrepreneur. He is a co-founder of the pharmaceutical company Moderna.

Title: Noubar Afeyan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noubar_Afeyan
Summary: Noubar Afeyan (Western Armenian: Նուպար Աֆէեան; born in 1962) is an American-Canadian billionaire businessman, inventor, and philanthropist. He is best known for co-founding the biotechnology company Moderna, through his venture capital firm, Flagship Pioneering, and for co-founding humanitarian projects such as Aurora Prize and The Future Armenian. As of November 2021, his net worth is estimated at $3.3 billion. He was awarded the National Medal of Technology and Innovation in 2025.