Title: Thomas Remengesau Jr.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Remengesau_Jr.
Summary: Thomas Esang Remengesau Jr. (born 28 February 1956) is a Palauan politician. He served as the Palauan president between 2001-2009 and 2013-2021. He served as a Senator in the Palau National Congress between his two administrations. In sum, Remengesau was elected Vice-President of Palau in 1992 and 1996, then president in 2000, 2004, 2012 and 2016.
Intending to make Palau less dependent upon United States aid, Remengesau has promoted the expansion and growth of tourism in Palau with the slogan "Preserve the Best and Improve the Rest". The "best" refers to Palau's especially bountiful and diverse marine water resources surrounding the islands, and, as a venue of underwater attractions, its reputation among the very top in the world. In foreign affairs, Remengesau has actively advanced Palau's presence in the United Nations, elevating Palau to leadership among the international community through such environmental initiatives as the Micronesian Challenge. He is also a leader among South Pacific nations in advocating awareness of global warming and its effects in the South Pacific Region.
In 2024, Remengesau ran for a fifth term in office, but decisively lost the election to incumbent Surangel Whipps Jr., making it the first election he ever lost.

Title: Hersey Kyota
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hersey_Kyota
Summary: Hersey Kyota (born May 1, 1953) is a Palauan politician and diplomat who has served as the ambassador of Palau to the United States since 1997. He is the current dean of the Diplomatic Corps in Washington, D.C., as the longest-serving ambassador to the United States.
Prior to his appointment as ambassador, Kyota was the chief clerk for the House of Delegates in the Palau National Congress, and director of the House Legal Counsels' Office in Palau. From 1990 to 1996, he served a senator in the Palau National Congress, and sat on the Board of Directors for the Association of Pacific Island Legislatures from 1992 to 1996. He has occasionally represented Palau in the United Nations.
Kyota received his bachelor's degree and master of arts degree from International University in San Diego. He is married and has five children.

Title: Antonio Bells
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antonio_Bells
Summary: Antonio Bells (born 6 July 1948) is a Palauan politician who served as the Vice President of Palau and Minister of Justice between 17 January 2013 and 19 January 2017.

Title: Before the Flood (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Before_the_Flood_(film)
Summary: Before the Flood is a 2016 documentary film about climate change directed by Fisher Stevens. The film was produced as a collaboration between Stevens, Leonardo DiCaprio, James Packer, Brett Ratner, Trevor Davidoski, and Jennifer Davisson Killoran. Martin Scorsese is an executive producer.
The film covers effects of climate change in various regions of the world, and discusses climate change denial. Numerous public figures are interviewed in the documentary. To offset the carbon emissions of the production, the filmmakers paid a voluntary carbon tax. The soundtrack features compositions by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross, Mogwai and Gustavo Santaolalla.
The film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival in September 2016, and was released theatrically on October 21, before airing on the National Geographic Channel on October 30. As part of National Geographic's commitment to covering climate change, the documentary was made widely available and free of charge on various platforms. It received generally positive critical reviews.

Title: List of ambassadors of Palau to Taiwan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ambassadors_of_Palau_to_Taiwan
Summary: The Palauan ambassador in Taipei is the official representative of the government in Ngerulmud to the government of Taiwan.