Title: List of Hungarians
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Hungarians
Summary: This is a list of Hungarians notable within Hungary and/or abroad. It includes notable Hungarians born outside present-day Hungary.

Title: 12th Screen Actors Guild Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/12th_Screen_Actors_Guild_Awards
Summary: The 12th Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards ceremony, honoring the best in film and television acting achievement for the year 2005, took place on January 29, 2006, at the Los Angeles Shrine Exposition Center, in Los Angeles, California. It was the 10th consecutive year the ceremony was held at the center. The nominees were announced on January 5, 2006, and the event was televised live by both TNT and TBS. It was the first ever year TBS televised the ceremony, while it was the 9th consecutive year that TNT had aired it.
Among the contenders for the film awards Brokeback Mountain received the highest number of nominations with four. Capote and Crash received the second highest number with three each. No film however received more than one award. In the television categories the mini-series Empire Falls and the spin-off series Boston Legal led the nominees with four nominations each. Desperate Housewives was the only series which won more than one award, two in total.
The Screen Actors Guild Life Achievement Award was presented to the former child actress Shirley Temple Black.

Title: Lin-Manuel Miranda
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lin-Manuel_Miranda
Summary: Lin-Manuel Miranda ( man-WELL; born January 16, 1980) is an American songwriter, actor, filmmaker, librettist, and producer. He created the Broadway musicals In the Heights and Hamilton, and the soundtracks for the animated films Moana, Vivo, and Encanto. He has received numerous accolades including a Pulitzer Prize for Drama, three Tony Awards, two Laurence Olivier Awards, two Emmy Awards, and five Grammy Awards, along with nominations for two Academy Awards. He received the Kennedy Center Honor in 2018.
Miranda made his Broadway debut in 2008, writing the music and lyrics for and starring in the musical In the Heights, which won the Tony Award for Best Musical and Best Original Score and the Grammy Award for Best Musical Theater Album. It was later adapted as a 2021 film of the same name. Miranda returned to Broadway in 2015, writing the script, music, and lyrics, as well as starring in the musical Hamilton, which was praised by critics and became a popular culture phenomenon. Hamilton won the Pulitzer Prize and was nominated for a record 16 Tonys and won 11, including Miranda's first win for the Best Book of a Musical. The Hamilton cast recording spent 10 weeks atop Billboard's Top Rap Albums chart and became the eleventh-biggest album of the 2010s.
A frequent collaborator of the Walt Disney Company, Miranda has written original songs for the studio. He gained two Oscar nominations for "How Far I'll Go" and "Dos Oruguitas" from Moana and Encanto, respectively. The song "We Don't Talk About Bruno" from Encanto broke various records and marked Miranda's first number-one song on the US  Billboard Hot 100 and the UK Singles charts. He starred as Jack in the musical fantasy Mary Poppins Returns (2018), for which he was nominated for a Golden Globe. For his performance in the Disney+ live stage recording of Hamilton released in 2020, he received a Golden Globe and Primetime Emmy nomination. Miranda debuted as a film director with Tick, Tick... Boom!.
His television work includes recurring roles on The Electric Company (2009–2010) and His Dark Materials (2019–2022). Miranda received Primetime Emmy Award-nominations for hosting Saturday Night Live in 2016, and guest starring in Curb Your Enthusiasm in 2018. He has been politically active on behalf of Puerto Rico. Miranda met with politicians in 2016 to speak out in favor of debt relief for Puerto Rico and raised funds for rescue efforts and disaster relief after Hurricane Maria in 2017.

Title: AARP Movies for Grownups Award for Best Documentary
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AARP_Movies_for_Grownups_Award_for_Best_Documentary
Summary: The AARP Movies for Grownups Award for Best Documentary is one of the AARP Movies for Grownups Awards presented annually by the AARP. The award honors the best documentary film from a given year that is made by or focuses on people over the age of 50. The Best Documentary Award is one of the seven original trophies issued by AARP the Magazine, along with awards for Best Movie for Grownups, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Foreign Language Film, and Best Movie for Grownups Who Refuse to Grow Up.

Title: List of Live with Kelly and Ryan episodes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Live_with_Kelly_and_Ryan_episodes
Summary: Live with Kelly and Ryan is the 2017–2023 title of a long-running American syndicated morning talk show. Kelly Ripa and Ryan Seacrest are the hosts in that period.