Title: 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024
Summary: 2024 (MMXXIV) was a leap year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar, the 2024th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 24th  year of the 3rd millennium and the 21st century, and the  5th   year of the 2020s decade.  
The year saw the continuation of major armed conflicts, including the Russo-Ukrainian war, the Myanmar civil war, the Sudanese civil war, and the Islamist insurgency in the Sahel. The Gaza war led to widespread protests and spillover conflicts into numerous other countries, most notably Lebanon, which was invaded by Israel in October. This followed an intensification of the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hezbollah. In September, Israel escalated an offensive against the group, which resulted in the killing of the Secretary-General, Hassan Nasrallah. Ismail Haniyeh, the political leader of Hamas, had also been assassinated in Iranian capital Tehran in July, and his successor Yahya Sinwar was killed by the Israel Defense Forces in October. In November, heavy fighting resumed in the Syrian civil war, leading to the toppling of Ba'athist Syria, with Bashar al-Assad fleeing Syria in December. The year also saw a rise in activity by the Houthi movement which contributed to a crisis in the Red Sea that impacted global shipping.
Approximately 80 countries, representing around 4 billion people, conducted national elections throughout the course of the year, including eight out of the ten most populous countries (Bangladesh, Brazil, Pakistan, Russia, India, Mexico, Indonesia, and the United States) as well as France, the United Kingdom, and Japan. The European Parliament also held elections. Among democracies, over 80% saw the incumbent party lose support compared to the last election, including many significant losses. In countries like Japan, Botswana, and South Africa, incumbent parties that had dominated domestic politics for decades lost their majorities and either relinquished power or are holding on through coalitions with minor parties. Bassirou Diomaye Faye won the 2024 Senegalese presidential election, becoming the first opposition candidate to win in the first round since the country's independence. In Sri Lanka, voters delivered a landslide victory to the National People's Power, previously a minor party. On November 5, 2024, Republican politician Donald Trump won the 2024 United States presidential election, becoming the first U.S. president to be elected to a nonconsecutive second term since 1892. The French and German governments lost votes of no confidence. In December, South Korean president Yoon Suk Yeol's attempt to declare and impose martial law was thwarted by members of parliament, sparking a political crisis that led to his impeachment.

Title: 2016 Palauan general election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2016_Palauan_general_election
Summary: General elections were held in Palau on 1 November 2016 to elect a President and the National Congress. Incumbent President Tommy Remengesau was challenged by his brother-in-law, Surangel Whipps Jr. for the presidency, emerging as the top two in the primary elections on 27 September. Remengesau was subsequently re-elected with 51% of the vote.

Title: 2024 Palauan general election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Palauan_general_election
Summary: General elections were held in Palau on 5 November 2024 to elect a President and the National Congress. Incumbent President Surangel Whipps Jr. faced former president Tommy Remengesau Jr. in the election, and was reelected. This was the first presidential election where Remengesau lost.

Title: List of elections in 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_elections_in_2024
Summary: This is a list of elections that were held in 2024. The National Democratic Institute also maintains a calendar of elections around the world.

2024 United Nations Security Council election
2024 national electoral calendar
2024 local electoral calendar
The year 2024 is notable for the large number of elections that were held worldwide: 64 countries from around the world, home to nearly half of the global population, voted, including eight of the world's 10 most populous nations – Bangladesh, Brazil, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Pakistan, Russia, and the United States; in addition, the European Union held elections for the European Parliament in June. Around 4 billion voters – approximately half of the world's population – were eligible to vote in elections that year.
2024 has been called the year of elections. This year had a big impact on global politics.
Almost every incumbent party worldwide facing election in 2024 lost vote share, including in South Africa, India, France, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Japan, though they did not necessarily lose power. Among democracies, over 80 percent saw the incumbent party lose support compared to the last election. This is the first time this has ever happened since 1905 (when data was first recorded) and the first time in the history of democracy, as universal suffrage began in 1894.

Title: Mason Whipps
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mason_Whipps
Summary: Mason Ngirchechebangel Whipps is a Palauan politician. Whipps was elected to the Senate of Palau in the 2020 Palauan general election.