Title: 2000 United States presidential election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2000_United_States_presidential_election
Summary: Presidential elections were held in the United States on November 7, 2000. The Republican ticket of Texas governor George W. Bush and former secretary of defense Dick Cheney narrowly defeated the Democratic ticket of incumbent vice president Al Gore and Connecticut junior senator Joe Lieberman. It was the fourth of five U.S. presidential elections, and the first since 1888, in which the winning candidate lost the popular vote. By number of votes that could have changed the outcome, it is the closest presidential election in U.S. history. The result remains controversial.
Incumbent Democratic president Bill Clinton was ineligible to run for a third term due to term limits established by the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution. Incumbent vice president Gore easily secured the Democratic nomination, defeating former New Jersey senator Bill Bradley in the primaries. He selected Connecticut senator Joe Lieberman as his running mate. Bush—the eldest son of former president George H. W. Bush—was seen as the early favorite for the Republican nomination, and after a contentious primary battle with Arizona senator John McCain and others, he secured the nomination by Super Tuesday. He selected former secretary of defense Dick Cheney as his running mate.
Both major-party candidates focused primarily on domestic issues, such as the budget, tax relief, and reforms for federal social insurance programs, although foreign policy was not ignored. Due to President Clinton's sex scandal with Monica Lewinsky and subsequent impeachment, Gore avoided campaigning with Clinton. Republicans denounced Clinton's indiscretions, while Gore criticized Bush's lack of experience.
On election night, it was unclear who had won, with the electoral votes of the state of Florida still undecided. It took over a month to resolve the issue: recounts were started and halted (some due to protest), and ensuing litigation was settled by the highly controversial U.S. Supreme Court decision Bush v. Gore, which ensured that Florida's electoral votes went to Bush, tipping the election in his favor. Without a full recount, Bush carried Florida by only 537 votes out of 5.96 million cast in the state (a margin of 0.009%).
Ultimately, Bush won 271 electoral votes, one vote more than the 270 required to win, while Gore won the popular vote by 543,895 votes (a margin of 0.52% of all votes cast). Bush flipped 11 states that had voted Democratic in 1996: Arkansas, Arizona, Florida, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, Tennessee, and West Virginia. Despite Gore's loss, this election marked the first time since 1948 that the Democratic Party won the popular vote in three consecutive elections.

Title: 2020 United States presidential election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020_United_States_presidential_election
Summary: Presidential elections were held in the United States on November 3, 2020. The Democratic ticket of former vice president Joe Biden and California junior senator Kamala Harris defeated the incumbent Republican president Donald Trump and vice president Mike Pence. The election saw the highest voter turnout by percentage since 1900. Biden received more than 81 million votes, the most votes ever cast for a presidential candidate in U.S. history.
In a competitive primary that featured the most candidates for any political party in the modern era of American politics, Biden secured the Democratic presidential nomination. Biden's running mate, Harris, became the first African American, first Asian American, and third female vice presidential nominee on a major party ticket. Trump easily secured re-nomination with only minor opposition in the Republican primaries. Jo Jorgensen secured the Libertarian presidential nomination with Spike Cohen as her running mate, and Howie Hawkins secured the Green presidential nomination with Angela Nicole Walker as his running mate.
The central issues of the election included the public health and economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, civil unrest in reaction to the police murder of George Floyd, the Supreme Court following the death of Ruth Bader Ginsburg and confirmation of Amy Coney Barrett, and the future of the Affordable Care Act. Due to the ongoing pandemic, a record number of ballots were cast early and by mail. Thirty-eight states had over half of all votes cast using these methods, and only three states had fewer than 25%. As a result of a large number of mail-in ballots, some swing states saw delays in vote counting and reporting; this led to major news outlets delaying their projection of Biden and Harris as the president-elect and vice president-elect until the morning of November 7, 2020.
Biden defeated Trump, winning 306 Electoral College votes and 51.3% of the popular vote to Trump's 232 electoral votes and 46.8% of the popular vote. Trump was the first president to lose re-election since George H. W. Bush in 1992. Key to Biden's pivotal victory were his wins in the Democratic-leaning Rust Belt states of Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin, which Trump narrowly carried in 2016 and whose combined 46 electoral votes were enough to swing the election to either candidate. This election marked the first time since 1948 that the Democratic candidate won the popular vote in four consecutive elections.
Trump refused to accept the results; he and his allies made disproven claims of fraud, pressured election officials, filed several unsuccessful lawsuits, and directly attempted to overturn the results at the county, state, and federal level. This culminated in an attack on the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021, for which Trump was impeached a second time. The day after the attack, Trump stated that a "new administration" would be succeeding his, without mentioning president-elect Biden by name, in a video posted on Twitter.

Title: 2024 United States presidential election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_United_States_presidential_election
Summary: Presidential elections were held in the United States on November 5, 2024. The Republican ticket of former president Donald Trump and Ohio junior senator JD Vance defeated the Democratic ticket of incumbent vice president Kamala Harris and Minnesota governor Tim Walz.
The incumbent president, Joe Biden of the Democratic Party, initially ran for re-election, easily sweeping aside a challenge from Democratic representative Dean Phillips of Minnesota in the Democratic primaries to become the party's presumptive nominee. However, what was broadly considered a poor debate performance in June 2024 intensified concerns about his age and health, and led to calls within his party for him to leave the race. After initially declining to do so, Biden ultimately withdrew from the race on July 21, 2024, becoming the first eligible incumbent president to run but subsequently withdraw since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968. Biden immediately endorsed Harris, who officially became the party's presidential nominee on August 5 and the first presidential nominee who did not participate in the primaries since Vice President Hubert Humphrey in 1968. Harris selected Walz as her running mate.
Trump, who lost the 2020 presidential election to Biden, ran for reelection to a nonconsecutive second term. Trump became the presumptive Republican Party's presidential nominee on March 12, 2024, easily defeating challengers such as former South Carolina governor Nikki Haley and Florida governor Ron DeSantis in the Republican primaries. He was shot in the ear in an assassination attempt on July 13, 2024. Trump was nominated as the Republican Party's presidential candidate during the 2024 Republican National Convention alongside his running mate, JD Vance. The Trump campaign ticket supported mass deportation of illegal immigrants; an isolationist "America First" and "peace through strength" foreign policy agenda with support of Israel in the Gaza war and skepticism of Ukraine in its war with Russia; policies hostile to transgender Americans; and greatly increased import tariffs. The campaign also made false and misleading statements, including claims of electoral fraud in 2020. Historians and some former Trump administrators saw his political movement as authoritarian.
Trump won the election over Harris, with 312 Electoral College votes to Harris's 226. Trump won all of the top seven swing states, including Nevada for the Republicans' first time since 2004. Trump won the national popular vote with a plurality of 49.8%, making him the first Republican to win the popular vote since George W. Bush in 2004 (unlike his 2016 victory and 2020 defeat). Trump's victory made him the second U.S. president to be elected to a nonconsecutive second term, after Grover Cleveland in 1892. Surveys of 2024 election voters, nationally and in key states, found that many viewed economic conditions negatively and were motivated by the issue when they voted. Other issues that motivated voters included immigration, the state of democracy, and abortion.

Title: 2028 United States presidential election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2028_United_States_presidential_election
Summary: Presidential elections are scheduled to be held in the United States on November 7, 2028, to elect the president and vice president to a four-year term, with the winners scheduled to be inaugurated on January 20, 2029. 
Incumbent Republican president Donald Trump is ineligible to run for a third term due to the term limits established by the 22nd Amendment to the United States Constitution. As a result, this is the first election since 2012 where Trump is not the Republican nominee. This is also set to be the first election since 1884 where an incumbent president is not on the ballot in two consecutive elections.