Title: Dallas
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dallas
Summary: Dallas is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. Located in northern Texas, it is the ninth-most populous city in the United States and third-most populous city in Texas, with a population of 1.3 million at the 2020 census. Along with the city of Fort Worth, Dallas anchors the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex, the fourth-most populous metropolitan area in the U.S. and the most populous metropolitan area in Texas, at 8.5 million people. Dallas is a core city of the largest metropolitan area in the Southern U.S. and the largest inland metropolitan area in the U.S. that lacks any navigable link to the sea. It is the seat of Dallas County, covering nearly 386 square miles (1,000 km2) and extending into Collin, Denton, Kaufman, and Rockwall counties.
Both Dallas and Fort Worth were initially developed as a product of the construction of major railroad lines through the area allowing access to cotton, cattle, and later oil in North and East Texas. The construction of the Interstate Highway System reinforced Dallas's prominence as a transportation hub, with four major interstate highways converging in the city and a fifth interstate loop around it. Dallas then developed as a strong industrial and financial center and a major inland port, due to the convergence of major railroad lines, interstate highways, and the construction of Dallas Fort Worth International Airport, one of the largest and busiest airports in the world. In addition, Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) operates rail and bus transit services throughout the city and its surrounding suburbs.
Dominant sectors of its diverse economy include defense, financial services (such as traditional banking, investment banking, private equity, and venture capital), information technology, telecommunications, and transportation. The Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex hosts 23 Fortune 500 companies, the second-most in Texas and fourth-most in the United States, and 11 of those companies are located within Dallas city limits. Over 41 colleges and universities are located within its metropolitan area, which is the most of any metropolitan area in Texas. The city has a population from a myriad of ethnic and religious backgrounds.

Title: Lake Texoma
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lake_Texoma
Summary: Lake Texoma is one of the largest reservoirs in the United States, the 12th-largest US Army Corps of Engineers' (USACE) lake, and the largest in USACE Tulsa District. Lake Texoma is formed by Denison Dam on the Red River in Bryan County, Oklahoma, and Grayson County, Texas, about 726 miles (1,168 km) upstream from the mouth of the river. It is located at the confluence of the Red and Washita Rivers. The project was completed in 1944. The damsite is about 5 miles (8.0 km) northwest of Denison, Texas, and 15 miles (24 km) southwest of Durant, Oklahoma. Lake Texoma is the most developed and most popular lake within the USACE Tulsa District, attracting around 6 million visitors a year. Oklahoma has more of the lake within its boundaries than Texas.

Title: Green Lake (Texas)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Lake_(Texas)
Summary: Green Lake is a natural tidal lake in Calhoun County, Texas, on the Guadalupe River flood basin. Known for its greenish waters, from which its name derives, the lake is located  northeast of Seadrift and 22 miles (35 km) south of Victoria on the Gulf Coastal Plain. Despite being less than 3 miles (4.8 km) from the coast of San Antonio Bay, its waters are fresh. It is the largest and only natural freshwater lake entirely in Texas, covering an area of approximately 10,000 acres (40 km2).
Separated from San Antonio Bay by the Guadalupe River delta around 2,200 years ago, a wetland ecosystem supporting a wide variety of waterfowl developed along the lake shore and the Guadalupe River delta. Archaeological evidence supports claims of Karankawa settlement.
An affluent agricultural community of the same name was established near the lakeside in the mid-19th century, but dwindled in status, becoming virtually abandoned in the aftermath of the American Civil War. It was strategically important during the early stages of the war, due to its proximity to fresh water and the Gulf of Mexico. After reaching its low point during the Great Depression, the lakeside community modestly rebounded in 1947 following the nearby discovery of oil. A lake of the same name and with a similar history is featured in the 1998 novel Holes.

Title: List of largest lakes of the United States by area
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_largest_lakes_of_the_United_States_by_area
Summary: The following is a list of the 100 largest lakes of the United States by normal surface area. The top twenty lakes in size are as listed by the National Atlas of the United States, a publication of the United States Department of the Interior. The area given is the normal or average area of the lake. The area of some lakes fluctuates substantially. For those lakes partially in Canada or Mexico the area given for the lake is the total area, not just the part of the lake in the United States. Of the top 100 lakes, 55 are man-made and 45 are natural. Two lakes in the top 100 are primarily salt water, and two are primarily brackish water.

Title: Lake Monticello (Texas)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lake_Monticello_(Texas)
Summary: Lake Monticello is a 2,001 acres (8.10 square kilometres) lake in Titus County, Texas, United States. The maximum depth is 40 feet, and was impounded in 1972 by the Monticello Reservoir, which also disconnected it from Lake Bob Sandlin.
Lake Monticello is part of a 5,700 acres (23 square kilometres) property owned by the Hortenstine Ranch Company, and is one of the largest privately owned lakes in Texas. The lake was opened to the public in 1973, and was popular to recreation. The lake was used for cooling the Monticello power plant. After its closure in 2018, the water became cold. Access to the boat ramp was restricted in 2019, and it was later closed to the public. In early April 2024, it was put up for sale for $131 million.
Lake Monticello is the namesake of Monticello, Texas, which is located northward.