Title: List of diss tracks
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_diss_tracks
Summary: The following is a list of diss tracks, recorded songs with the primary purpose of verbally attacking someone else, usually another artist.

Title: Like That (Future, Metro Boomin and Kendrick Lamar song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Like_That_(Future,_Metro_Boomin_and_Kendrick_Lamar_song)
Summary: "Like That" is a song by American rappers Future and Kendrick Lamar and producer Metro Boomin. It was sent to US rhythmic radio through Freebandz, Boominati Worldwide, Epic Records, and Republic as the third and final single from Future and Metro's collaborative studio album, We Don't Trust You, on March 26, 2024.
Solely produced by Metro, the three artists wrote the song alongside Kobe Hood; Rodney-O & Joe Cooley are also credited as songwriters as the bass line contains samples of their 1986 song, "Everlasting Bass", which in turn samples Barry White's 1973 hit "I'm Gonna Love You Just a Little More Baby". "Like That" also has additional elements that contain samples of Eazy-E's 1989 single, "Eazy-Duz-It", and contains a vocal sample of Michel'le. A remix of the song featuring the American supergroup ¥$, composed of Kanye West and Ty Dolla Sign, was released exclusively on West's Yeezy website on April 20, 2024, and uploaded to West's YouTube the next day, crediting him as the sole main artist.
A trap and hardcore hip-hop song that is predominantly composed of lively percussions, "Like That" received acclaim from music critics, who primarily praised Lamar's performance and Metro's production. Lamar's verse, which attracted significant media coverage, is a diss aimed at fellow rappers Drake and J. Cole in response to their 2023 collaboration, "First Person Shooter". "Like That" was quickly met with commercial success, debuting atop the Billboard Hot 100, where it would spend three weeks, as well as topping the Global 200 and the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs charts simultaneously. It was both Future and Lamar's third number-one single on the former chart, and Metro's first as a credited artist. The song also topped the Canadian Hot 100 and peaked within the top ten of several countries in Europe and Oceania.

Title: Euphoria (Kendrick Lamar song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euphoria_(Kendrick_Lamar_song)
Summary: "Euphoria" (stylized in all lowercase) is a diss track by the American rapper Kendrick Lamar released amidst his highly publicized feud with the Canadian rapper Drake. It was unexpectedly released on April 30, 2024, through Interscope Records, as a response to Drake's "Push Ups" and "Taylor Made Freestyle". It was initially a YouTube exclusive before being released to streaming platforms hours later.
"Euphoria" was produced by Cardo, Johnny Juliano, Kyuro, Sounwave, and Yung Exclusive. It credits Kenneth Gamble as a composer due to the introduction containing a sample of Teddy Pendergrass's 1981 song "You're My Latest, My Greatest Inspiration". The title is an apparent reference to the American teen drama series Euphoria, on which Drake serves as an executive producer. Lyrically, Lamar expresses his hatred for Drake, describing him as a scam artist and mocking his alleged insecurities regarding his race.
"Euphoria" was Lamar's first release following his departure from Top Dawg Entertainment and Aftermath Entertainment. It received positive reviews from critics, who praised its humorous yet hateful tone and Lamar's performance. It also performed commercially well, peaking at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 and Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs charts, and appearing in charts from various countries. Lamar followed "Euphoria" with "6:16 in LA" on May 3, the same day Drake released his response, "Family Matters", in which the former responded with "Meet the Grahams" within less than an hour. Lamar later performed "Euphoria" at The Pop Out: Ken & Friends (2024), the Super Bowl LIX halftime show (2025), and the Grand National Tour (2025).

Title: Not Like Us
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_Like_Us
Summary: "Not Like Us" is a diss track by the American rapper Kendrick Lamar released amidst his highly publicized feud with the Canadian rapper Drake. It was released on May 4, 2024, through Interscope Records, less than 20 hours after Lamar's previous diss track "Meet the Grahams". A music video, directed by Dave Free and Lamar, was released on American Independence Day (July 4).
Primarily produced by Mustard, with additional work from Sounwave and Sean Momberger, "Not Like Us" is a hyphy-influenced West Coast hip-hop song with a prominent bassline, lively strings, and finger snaps. Lyrically, it continues the themes introduced in "Meet the Grahams". Lamar doubles down on allegations of Drake's sexual interest in minors and sexual misconduct. He also criticizes his cultural identity and relationships with artists based in Atlanta, Georgia, accusing him of exploiting them for street credibility and financial gain.
"Not Like Us" received acclaim from critics, who praised the production, songwriting, and Lamar's performance; they felt it solidified Lamar's victory. It is widely regarded as the feud's best track. "Not Like Us" broke numerous records on the streaming platform Spotify and peaked at number one in ten countries, while charting in the top ten in over 20 additional countries. Drake responded to "Not Like Us" with "The Heart Part 6", in which he denied Lamar's accusations, on May 5. In January 2025, Drake filed a lawsuit against Interscope's parent Universal Music Group (UMG), alleging that "Not Like Us" defamed him and that UMG and Spotify artificially inflated its popularity; the lawsuit was dismissed in October 2025.
"Not Like Us" won all five of its Grammy nominations at the 67th ceremony: Record of the Year, Song of the Year, Best Rap Performance, Best Rap Song, and Best Music Video. It is tied with the 5th Dimension's "Up, Up and Away" as the most-awarded song in Grammy history. Lamar first performed "Not Like Us" live on Juneteenth 2024 during The Pop Out: Ken & Friends, where he played it five consecutive times. He performed it when he headlined the Super Bowl LIX halftime show in February 2025 and throughout his Grand National Tour from April to October 2025.

Title: GNX (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNX_(album)
Summary: GNX is the sixth studio album by American rapper Kendrick Lamar. It was surprise-released on November 22, 2024, through PGLang and Interscope Records. The album features guest appearances from SZA, Dody6, Lefty Gunplay, Wallie the Sensei, Siete7x, Roddy Ricch, AzChike, Hitta J3, YoungThreat, and Peysoh. Lamar produced the album primarily with Sounwave and Jack Antonoff; other producers include Mustard, Sean Momberger, and Kamasi Washington.
Titled after the Buick Regal model, GNX is Lamar's first album to be released after his departure from longtime labels Top Dawg Entertainment and Aftermath Entertainment. GNX was released to widespread acclaim. Multiple critics hailed it as a successful reimagination of West Coast hip-hop and one of the best albums of 2024. The album was Lamar's fifth number one on the US Billboard 200 chart. It also topped the charts in numerous countries, including Canada, Netherlands, Sweden, Australia, Denmark, and the UK; and top five in Poland, Nigeria, France, and Hungary.
GNX was supported by four singles: the Billboard Hot 100 number ones "Squabble Up" and "Luther", the number two hit "TV Off", and "Peekaboo". Lamar and SZA performed live at the Super Bowl LIX halftime show and embarked on the co-headlining Grand National Tour in 2025 to promote the album as well as SZA's Lana.
The album and its songs received eight nominations at the 68th Grammy Awards, including Album of the Year, winning four for Best Rap Album, with "Luther" winning Record of the Year and Best Melodic Rap Performance while "TV Off" won Best Rap Song. With these wins, Lamar became the most awarded rapper in Grammy history with 27 career wins.