Title: List of cities in China
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_in_China
Summary: According to the administrative divisions of the People's Republic of China, there are three levels of cities: provincial-level cities (consisting of directly-administered municipalities and the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau), prefecture-level cities, and county-level cities. As of January 2024, the PRC has a total of 707 cities: 4 municipalities, 2 SARs, 293 prefecture-level cities (including the 15 sub-provincial cities) and 408 county-level cities (including the 38 sub-prefectural cities and 12 XXPC cities). This list does not include any cities in the disputed Taiwan Province and portions of Fujian Province, which are claimed by the PRC under the One China Policy, as these areas are controlled by the Republic of China (see the List of cities in Taiwan).
Prefecture-level cities nearly always contain multiple counties (县), county-level cities, and other such sub-divisions. Because of this, prefecture-level cities often overlap in area with county-level cities.
Four cities are centrally administered municipalities, which include dense urban areas, suburbs, and large rural areas: Chongqing (32.05 million), Shanghai (24.87 million), Beijing (21.89 million), and Tianjin (13.87 million).
In 2024, there were 105 cities governed by the People's Republic of China with an urban population of over 1 million.

Title: List of cities in China by population
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_in_China_by_population
Summary: As of 2023, the five largest cities in China by population are Chongqing (31.91 million), Shanghai (24.87 million), Beijing (21.86 million), Chengdu (21.403 million) and Guangzhou (18.827 million). As of 2024, there are 18 megacities (cities with a population of over 10 million), including Chongqing, Shanghai, Beijing, Chengdu, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Wuhan, Tianjin, Xi'an, Suzhou, Zhengzhou, Hangzhou, Shijiazhuang, Linyi, Dongguan, Qingdao, Changsha and Hefei. 
Among them, the total permanent population of Chongqing, Shanghai, Beijing and Chengdu is above 20 million. Shanghai is China's most populous urban area, while Chongqing is its largest city proper, the only city in China with the largest permanent population of over 30 million.
As of 2021, there were 113 Chinese cities with over 1 million people in urban areas.

Title: List of largest cities
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_largest_cities
Summary: The United Nations uses three definitions for what constitutes a city, as not all cities in all jurisdictions are classified using the same criteria. Cities may be defined as the cities proper, their metropolitan regions, or the extent of their urban area. A complicating factor is that many large cities in the world have not only homeless or the unhoused, but also vast slum communities. This leads to official census data being less accurate in representing the actual number of residents in a given area.

Title: List of cities proper by population density
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_proper_by_population_density
Summary: This is a list of cities worldwide by population density. The population, population density and land area for the cities listed are based on the entire city proper, the defined boundary or border of a city or the city limits of the city. The population density of the cities listed is based on the average number of people living per square kilometre or per square mile. This list does not refer to the population, population density or land area of the greater metropolitan area or urban area, nor particular districts in any of the cities listed.

Title: Underoccupied developments in China
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Underoccupied_developments_in_China
Summary: Underoccupied developments in China are mostly unoccupied newly built property developments in China, and frequently referred to as "ghost cities" or ghost towns. The phenomenon was claimed and recorded as early as 2009 by Al Jazeera's Melissa Chan and subsequently reported by news media over the decades. Although a feature of discourse on the Chinese economy and urbanization in China in the 2010s, many developments that were initially criticized as "ghost cities" in China have since become occupied and are now functioning cities.
China's government has set a goal to raise the nation's urbanization rate to around 75% by 2035, which may require the construction of an estimated 40 to 50 million new housing units to accommodate this shift. Some observers argue that China's so-called "ghost cities" are better understood as ambitious urbanization projects built ahead of demand. A 2021 Bloomberg article cited geography professor Max Woodworth who explained these developments often resemble fully constructed cities but lack immediate population inflow. He notes that China's rapid push to urbanize after decades of underurbanization, has led to a pace of construction that sometimes outstrips the rate at which people move in, despite ongoing investment interest. While these areas may appear underutilized initially, they are often intended to fill gradually over time as part of a long-term urban development strategy.