Title: Real Madrid CF
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_Madrid_CF
Summary: Real Madrid Club de Fútbol (Spanish pronunciation: [reˈal maˈðɾið ˈkluβ ðe ˈfuðβol] ) is a Spanish professional association football club based in Madrid. The club competes in La Liga, the top tier of Spanish football.
Founded in 1902 as Madrid Football Club, the club has traditionally worn a white home kit. The honorific title 'Real' is Spanish for "Royal" and was bestowed by Alfonso XIII in 1920. Real Madrid have played their home matches in the Bernabéu since 1947. Unlike most European sporting clubs, Real Madrid's members have owned and operated the club throughout its history. The club is one of the most widely supported in the world and the most followed sports club across social media. It was estimated to be worth $6.6 billion in 2024, making it the world's most valuable football club. In 2024, it became the first football club to make €1 billion ($1.08bn) in revenue. The club anthem is the "Hala Madrid y nada más".
Real Madrid is one of the most successful football clubs in the world and the most decorated club in Europe. In Spanish domestic football, the club has won 71 trophies; a record 36 La Liga titles, 20 Copa del Rey, 13 Supercopa de España, a Copa Eva Duarte and a Copa de la Liga. In International football, Real Madrid have won a record 35 trophies: a record 15 European Cup/UEFA Champions League titles, a record six UEFA Super Cups, two UEFA Cups, a joint-record two Latin Cups, a record one Iberoamerican Cup, and a record nine world championships. Madrid has been ranked joint first a record number of times in the IFFHS Club World Ranking. In UEFA's club ranking, Madrid ranks first in the all-time club ranking.
As one of the three founding members of La Liga never relegated from the top division along with Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao, Real Madrid has many long-standing rivalries, most notably El Clásico with Barcelona and El Derbi Madrileño with Atlético Madrid. The club established itself as a major force in Spanish and European football during the 1950s and 60s, winning five consecutive and six overall European Cups. This success was replicated on the domestic front, with Madrid winning 12 league titles in 16 years. This team, which included Alfredo Di Stéfano, Ferenc Puskás, Paco Gento and Raymond Kopa, is considered by some in the sport to be the greatest of all time. Real Madrid is known for its Galácticos policy, which involves signing the world's best players, such as Ronaldo, Zinedine Zidane and David Beckham to create a superstar team. In 2009, Madrid signed Cristiano Ronaldo for a record-breaking £80 million (€94 million) from Manchester United; he became the club's and history's all-time top goal-scorer. In addition to signing star players, Real Madrid develops homegrown talent through its academy, La Fábrica, which has produced notable graduates such as Raúl, Iker Casillas, and Dani Carvajal, and has supplied the highest number of players to Europe's top five leagues.
Real Madrid was recognized as the greatest football club of the 20th century, receiving the FIFA Centennial Order of Merit in 2004. Real Madrid has the highest number of participations in the European Cup/UEFA Champions League (55), a tournament in which they hold the records for most wins, draws and goals scored. Real Madrid is the only club to have won three consecutive titles in the European Cup/UEFA Champions League twice, achieving this in 1956-58 and 2016-18. In 2024, they won a record-extending 15th Champions League title (the sixth in eleven seasons), recognized as such by Guinness World Records. Real Madrid is the first club across all Europe's top-five leagues to win 100 trophies in all competitions. As of May 2026, Real Madrid are ranked 2nd in UEFA club rankings, and first over 2013–23 coefficient.

Title: Al-Nassr FC
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al-Nassr_FC
Summary: Al-Nassr Football Club, commonly known as Al-Nassr or simply Nassr (Arabic: نادي النصر), is a Saudi Arabian professional association football club based in Riyadh. Founded in 1955, the club competes in the Saudi Pro League, the top tier of football in Saudi Arabia, and is one of three teams never relegated from the top flight.

Title: El Clásico
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Cl%C3%A1sico
Summary: El Clásico (in Spanish, also in lowercase letters; Spanish pronunciation: [el ˈklasiko]) or El Clàssic (in Catalan, pronounced [əl ˈklasik]), both meaning "The Classic", is the name given to any football match between rival clubs Barcelona and Real Madrid. Originally referring to competitions held in the Spanish championship, the term now includes every match between the clubs, such as those in the UEFA Champions League, Copa del Rey, and Supercopa de España. It is considered one of sport's fiercest rivalries, and its matches have a global audience of hundreds of millions. A fixture known for its intensity, it has featured memorable goal celebrations from both teams, often involving mockery from both sides.
The fixture is heavily politicised due to the Catalan independence movement, with the two clubs often identified with opposing political positions; Madrid is the capital and largest city of Spain and hence identified with Spanish unionism, while Barcelona is the capital and largest city of the autonomous community of Catalonia and hence identified with Catalan separatism. They are among the wealthiest and most successful football clubs in the world; in 2024, Forbes ranked Real Madrid and Barcelona among the most valuable football teams in the world, in first and third place respectively.
As of the match played on 10 May 2026, the teams are tied in head-to-head results in official competitive matches with 106 wins each, along with 52 draws. Along with Athletic Bilbao, they are the only clubs in La Liga never to have been relegated.

Title: X (social network)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X_(social_network)
Summary: X, formerly known as Twitter, is an American microblogging and social networking service owned by SpaceX's artificial intelligence subsidiary SpaceXAI. It is one of the world's largest social media platforms and one of the most-visited websites. Users can share short text messages, images, and videos in short posts (commonly and unofficially known as "tweets", in reference to the site's former terminology for the format) and like other users' content. The platform also includes direct messaging, video and audio calling, bookmarks, lists, communities, Grok chatbot integration, job search, and a social audio feature (X Spaces). Users can vote on context added by approved users using the Community Notes feature.
The platform was created in March 2006 as Twitter by Jack Dorsey, Noah Glass, Biz Stone, and Evan Williams, and was launched in July of that year; initially named twttr, it was renamed Twitter some months later. The platform grew quickly; by 2012 more than 100 million users produced 340 million daily tweets. Twitter, Inc., was based in San Francisco, California, and had more than 25 offices around the world. A signature characteristic of the service initially was that posts were required to be brief. Posts were initially limited to 140 characters, which was changed to 280 characters in 2017. The limitation was removed for subscribed accounts in 2023. 10% of users produce over 80% of tweets. In 2020, it was estimated that approximately 48 million accounts (15% of all accounts) were run by Internet bots rather than humans.
The service is owned by the American company X Corp., which was established to succeed the prior owner Twitter, Inc. in March 2023 following the October 2022 acquisition of Twitter by Elon Musk for US$44 billion. Musk stated that his goal with the acquisition was to promote free speech on the platform. Since his acquisition, the platform has been criticized for enabling the increased spread of disinformation and hate speech and accused of becoming increasingly right-wing and catering to hate groups. In February 2026, France raided X offices and fined the platform for failing to remove harmful and illegal content.
Linda Yaccarino succeeded Musk as CEO on June 5, 2023, with Musk remaining as the chairman and the chief technology officer. In July 2023, Musk announced that Twitter would be rebranded to "X" and the bird logo would be retired, a process which was completed by May 2024. In March 2025, X Corp. was acquired by xAI, Musk's artificial intelligence company. The deal, an all-stock transaction, valued X at $33 billion, with a full valuation of $45 billion when factoring in $12 billion in debt. xAI, in turn, was valued at $80 billion. In July 2025, Yaccarino stepped down from her role as CEO. In February 2026, the platform's owner, xAI, was acquired by SpaceX; this marked the sixth time where the social media platform has changed hands and the third time under Musk's ownership.

Title: Ronaldo Lemos
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ronaldo_Lemos
Summary: Ronaldo Lemos (Araguari, March 25, 1976) is a Brazilian lawyer specializing in technology, professor, researcher, and television host, internationally recognized for his work on intellectual property, data privacy, artificial intelligence, media, public policy, and innovation.
He was the creator and leading advocate of the Brazilian Civil Rights Framework for the Internet, (Marco Civil da Internet) the first comprehensive law on technology and the internet in Brazil. He is also one of the most prominent figures in the regulatory development of the internet in the country. He co-authored the Brazilian National Internet of Things Plan, and led the drafting of the country's first comprehensive legislation on artificial intelligence, Complementary Law No. 205/2025 of the State of Goiás.
He holds a Master of Laws degree from Harvard University and both a Bachelor's and a PhD in Law from the University of São Paulo (USP). He founded the Institute for Technology and Society of Rio de Janeiro (ITS Rio), where he currently serves as Chief Scientist. He has been Professor of Technology and Public Policy at Columbia University in New York, at the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA), and Full Professor of Technology at Schwarzman College of Tsinghua University, in Beijing. In Brazil, he served as Professor of Computer Law at the Rio de Janeiro State University (UERJ) and Full Professor of Intellectual Property at the Rio de Janeiro Law School of Fundação Getulio Vargas (FGV), of which he was one of the founders. He was also a visiting researcher and the representative of the MIT Media Lab in Brazil, in addition to being a visiting researcher at Princeton and Oxford universities.
He has served on the boards of several organizations, including the Mozilla Foundation, Access Now, and German Hospital Oswaldo Cruz. He currently sits on the Spotify Safety Advisory Council, Meta's Oversight Board, the Stellar Development Foundation Board, and the Board of the Museum of Tomorrow, among others.
He is a weekly columnist and member of the Editorial Board of Folha de S.Paulo one of Brazil's most prominent newspapers. He is also the creator and host of Expresso Futuro, a documentary series on innovation and technology broadcast weekly by Futura Channel and also aired by Fantástico on TV Globo.
Lemos has worked in television across multiple networks and published books on various topics, including law, technology, and culture.  He has also served as curator of the Tim Festival, a music festival held between (2005–2008),  and is currently curator of the C6 Fest.
In 2015, he was named one of the Young Global Leaders by the World Economic Forum and became a fellow of Ashoka. He is also a practicing lawyer, leading the technology practice at Rennó Penteado Sampaio Advogados. He served as president of the Technology Committee of the São Paulo Bar Association (OAB-SP).
His work includes collaborations with organizations and companies around the world, including the incorporation of technologies into public administration.