Title: Breakthrough of the Year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_of_the_Year
Summary: The Breakthrough of the Year is an annual award for the most significant development in scientific research made by the AAAS journal Science, an academic journal covering all branches of science.
Originating in 1989 as the Molecule of the Year, and inspired by Time's Person of the Year, it was renamed the Breakthrough of the Year in 1996.

Title: Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_Prize_in_Life_Sciences
Summary: The Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences is a scientific award, funded by internet entrepreneurs Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan of Facebook; Sergey Brin of Google; entrepreneur and venture capitalist Yuri Milner; and Anne Wojcicki, one of the founders of the genetics company 23andMe.
The award of $3 million, the largest award in the sciences, is given to researchers who have made discoveries that extend human life. The Prize is awarded annually, beginning in 2013, with six awards given in each subsequent year. Winners are expected to give public lectures and form the committee to decide future winners. The ceremony takes place in the San Francisco Bay Area, with the symposiums alternating between University of California, Berkeley, University of California, San Francisco, and Stanford University.

Title: Breakthrough Prize
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_Prize
Summary: The Breakthrough Prizes are a set of international awards bestowed in three categories by the Breakthrough Prize Board in recognition of scientific advances. The awards are part of several "Breakthrough" philanthropic programs launched by the foundation co-founded by Yuri Milner and his wife Julia Milner, along with Breakthrough Initiatives and Breakthrough Junior Challenge.

Breakthrough Prize in Mathematics
Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics
Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences
The Breakthrough Prizes were founded by Sergey Brin and his then wife Anne Wojcicki, Priscilla Chan and Mark Zuckerberg, and Yuri and Julia Milner. The Prizes have been sponsored by the personal foundations established by Sergey Brin, Priscilla Chan and Mark Zuckerberg, Ma Huateng, Jack Ma, Yuri and Julia Milner, and Anne Wojcicki. Committees of previous laureates choose the winners from candidates nominated in a process that is online and open to the public.
Laureates receive $3 million each in prize money. They attend a televised award ceremony designed to celebrate their achievements and inspire the next generation of scientists. As part of the ceremony schedule, they also engage in a program of lectures and discussions. Those that go on to make fresh discoveries remain eligible for future Breakthrough Prizes.
Both the 2023 and 2024 ceremonies were held in Los Angeles at the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures.

Title: Breakthrough Prize in Mathematics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_Prize_in_Mathematics
Summary: The Breakthrough Prize in Mathematics is an annual award of the Breakthrough Prize series announced in 2013.
It is supported by foundations co-founded by Julia and Yuri Milner, Mark Zuckerberg and others. The annual award comes with a cash gift of $3 million. The Breakthrough Prize Board also selects up to three laureates for the New Horizons in Mathematics Prize, which awards $100,000 to early-career researchers. Starting in 2021 (prizes announced in September 2020), the $50,000 Maryam Mirzakhani New Frontiers Prize is also awarded to a number of women mathematicians who have completed their PhDs within the past two years.

Title: Breakthrough Starshot
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_Starshot
Summary: Breakthrough Starshot was a research and engineering project by the Breakthrough Initiatives program to develop a proof-of-concept fleet of light sail interstellar probes named Starchip, to be capable of making the journey to the Alpha Centauri star system 4.34 light-years away. It was founded in 2016 by Yuri Milner, Stephen Hawking, and Mark Zuckerberg.
A flyby mission was proposed to Proxima Centauri b, an Earth-sized exoplanet in the habitable zone of its host star, Proxima Centauri, in the Alpha Centauri system. At a speed between 15% and 20% of the speed of light, it would take between 20 and 30 years to complete the journey, and approximately 4 years for a return message from the starship to Earth.
The conceptual principles to enable this interstellar travel project were described in "A Roadmap to Interstellar Flight", by Philip Lubin of UC Santa Barbara. Sending the lightweight spacecraft involves a multi-kilometer phased array of beam-steerable lasers with a combined coherent power output of up to 100 GW.
In September 2025, Scientific American reported that the project was on hold indefinitely.  Philip Lubin estimates that the project had spent about $4.5 million of the proposed $100 million by this point.