Title: New York Knicks
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Knicks
Summary: The New York Knickerbockers, commonly called the New York Knicks, are an American professional basketball team based in the New York City borough of Manhattan. The Knicks compete in the National Basketball Association (NBA) as a member of the Atlantic Division of the Eastern Conference. The team plays its home games at Madison Square Garden, an arena it shares with the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League (NHL). They are one of two NBA teams in New York City, the other being the Brooklyn Nets. Alongside the Boston Celtics, the Knicks are one of two original NBA teams still in their original cities.
Established in 1946 by Ned Irish, the New York Knicks were among the founding members of the Basketball Association of America (BAA), which merged with the National Basketball League (NBL) in 1949 to form the NBA. Under their first head coach, Joe Lapchick, the Knicks were a perennial playoff contender, reaching three consecutive NBA Finals between 1951 and 1953 but never winning a championship. After Lapchick resigned in 1956, the franchise entered a prolonged decline, reaching the playoffs once between 1956 and 1966.
The Knicks returned to prominence in the late 1960s under head coach Red Holzman, winning their first NBA championships in 1970 and 1973. They made six playoff appearances in the 1980s but did not reach the NBA Finals. In the 1990s, led by Hall of Fame center Patrick Ewing and the team's physical, defense-oriented style under head coaches Pat Riley and Jeff Van Gundy, the Knicks reached the NBA Finals in 1994 and 1999, but did not win a championship. After Ewing's departure, the Knicks entered another prolonged period of playoff absences, and although Hall of Fame forwards Carmelo Anthony and Amar'e Stoudemire led the team to a division title in 2013 (their first in 19 years), the team suffered their worst-ever regular season records thereafter.
After signing guard Jalen Brunson in 2022, and acquiring Josh Hart, OG Anunoby, Mikal Bridges, and Karl-Anthony Towns between 2023 and 2024, the Knicks returned to playoff contention and won the NBA championship in 2026, ending their 53-year championship drought.

Title: 2018 NBA Finals
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2018_NBA_Finals
Summary: The 2018 NBA Finals was the championship series of the National Basketball Association's (NBA) 2017–18 season and conclusion of the season's playoffs. In this best-of-seven playoff, the defending NBA champion and Western Conference champion Golden State Warriors swept the Eastern Conference champion Cleveland Cavaliers in four games to repeat as champions for the first time in franchise history, having previously won in 2017. The series began on May 31, and ended on June 8 with the first NBA Finals sweep since 2007. Golden State Warriors small forward Kevin Durant was named the NBA Finals Most Valuable Player (MVP) for the second consecutive year, after averaging 28.8 points, 10.8 rebounds, and 7.5 assists in the series. Durant became the first and only player in the history of the Warriors franchise to win two consecutive NBA Finals MVP Awards and also the first and only player in the history of the NBA to have been named two NBA Finals MVP in the first two seasons with a team.
The Finals was the first time in any of North America's four major professional sports leagues that the same two teams met for the championship for four consecutive years. Entering the series, the Warriors, who had home-court advantage over the Cavaliers, were noted by various sports media outlets as one of the biggest NBA Finals favorites in recent history.
In a tightly contested Game 1, George Hill missed one of his two free throw attempts at the end of the game, and J. R. Smith got the rebound and dribbled out the clock, thinking the Cavaliers were in the lead (the game was instead tied). The Warriors dominated in overtime and went on to win the next three games to complete the sweep. The series broke the record set by the 2014 NBA Finals for highest average scoring differential per game (15.0) for an NBA Finals series. As of 2026, the 2018 Finals are the most recent NBA Finals to have a repeat champion and the most recent where the losing team was swept.

Title: 2025 NBA Finals
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_NBA_Finals
Summary: The 2025 NBA Finals was the championship series of the National Basketball Association's (NBA) 2024–25 season and conclusion to the season's playoffs. The best-of-seven series ended with the Western Conference champion Oklahoma City Thunder defeating the Eastern Conference champion Indiana Pacers in seven games. The Thunder's Shai Gilgeous-Alexander was voted the NBA Finals Most Valuable Player (MVP), becoming the first Canadian to win the award. The series began on June 5 and ended on June 22 with the first NBA Finals Game 7 since 2016.
With a league-best regular season record of 68–14, the Thunder held home-court advantage in the Finals. They came into the series as heavy favorites against the 50–32 Pacers. The Pacers set an NBA postseason record with five 15-point comebacks. One was in Game 1 of the Finals, when Tyrese Haliburton made a game-winning two-point jump shot with 0.3 seconds left. The teams split the first six games, forcing a decisive Game 7, in which Haliburton tore his right Achilles tendon in the first quarter. The Thunder's victory secured their second championship in franchise history, after their 1979 title as the Seattle SuperSonics, and their first since their 2008 move to Oklahoma City.
The 2025 Finals crowned the NBA's seventh unique champion in seven years, the longest stretch in league history. The 2025 Finals was also the first since 2006 in which both cities were seeking their first NBA championship.
The Thunder's victory was the first championship in any major professional sport for the state of Oklahoma.

Title: 2026 NBA playoffs
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_NBA_playoffs
Summary: The 2026 NBA playoffs was the postseason tournament of the National Basketball Association's 2025–26 season. The playoffs began on April 18 and ended on June 13 with the New York Knicks defeating the San Antonio Spurs in five games at the 2026 NBA Finals. For the second straight season, the defending champions Oklahoma City Thunder with two-time defending MVP Shai Gilgeous-Alexander clinched the top seed in the Western Conference with a league-best record of 64–18, two games better than the San Antonio Spurs with reigning Defensive Player of the Year Victor Wembanyama. The Eastern Conference top seed was won by the Detroit Pistons for the first time since 2007. Whilst the reigning Eastern Conference champion Indiana Pacers missed the postseason after an injury-plagued season following the absence of Tyrese Haliburton, both the Thunder and the Spurs were widely considered as title favorites heading into the playoffs.
The Eastern Conference saw the early exit of the second-seeded Boston Celtics after they blew a 3–1 series lead against the Philadelphia 76ers in the first round, which was the first time Philadelphia had overcome that deficit in franchise history. The first-seeded Pistons also overcame a 3–1 series deficit in order to win their first playoff series since 2008 in their first round series against the Orlando Magic. The Thunder started the postseason strongly by sweeping both the Phoenix Suns and the Los Angeles Lakers in the first two rounds, becoming the fourth champion to start the playoffs on an 8–0 record, but lost in seven games against the second-seeded Spurs in the Western Conference finals, with the latter advancing to the Finals for the first time in twelve years. The Eastern Conference was won by the third-seeded New York Knicks, who emerged as a serious title contender as the playoffs progressed after defeating the Atlanta Hawks in the first round and sweeping both the 76ers and the Cleveland Cavaliers in the following two rounds to advance to the NBA Finals for the first time in 27 years, notably having blowout victories in the closeout games of all three series. The Knicks also became the second team in NBA history after the 2017 Golden State Warriors to win thirteen consecutive playoff games. Due to the outcome of the Conference finals, the NBA saw its eighth unique champion, the longest such streak across the league.
A rematch of the 2025 NBA Cup final, no clear favourite emerged heading into the NBA Finals. However, the Knicks went off to a strong start to the series by winning the first two games on the road – a distinction that happened for the first time since 1995. Despite losing Game 3 at home, the fourth game was the most notable game throughout the entire series, as the Knicks were down by 27 points at halftime and down 81-52 in the third quarter, before overcoming that deficit in order to win 107-106, thus producing the largest comeback in Finals history. After yet another double-digit deficit in Game 5, the Knicks once again came back to win the game by four points to wrap up the series in order to win their third title overall, ending their 53-year championship drought. Jalen Brunson, who tied Michael Jordan for the second-most points scored in a Finals closeout game on the road with 45 points, was later named Finals MVP after averaging 32.6 points per game throughout the entire series, becoming the first Knicks player since Willis Reed in 1973 to be awarded the Finals MVP. It was the first Finals series since 1975 in which multiple games have been won by a single point and also the first time ever in which an NBA team had accomplished the double by winning both the NBA Cup and the NBA championship. Several media outlets called the series one of the best of the last decade.

Title: 2026 NBA Finals
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_NBA_Finals
Summary: The 2026 NBA Finals was the championship series of the National Basketball Association's (NBA) 2025–26 season and conclusion to the season's playoffs. The best-of-seven series ended when the Eastern Conference champion New York Knicks defeated the Western Conference champion San Antonio Spurs, four games to one. It was the Knicks' third NBA championship, and their first since 1973. The series ran from June 3 to June 13, 2026. New York’s Jalen Brunson was named NBA Finals Most Valuable Player (MVP) for his performance, where in Game 5 he recorded 45 points, tying an NBA Finals record with Michael Jordan for the most points scored on the road in a series-clinching game.
The series was a rematch of the 1999 NBA Finals, which the Spurs won in five games, and of the 2025 NBA Cup championship game, which the Knicks won 124–113. It was the first NBA Finals to feature the finalist teams of the three-year-old NBA Cup. It was the NBA's eighth consecutive year with a unique champion, the longest such stretch in league history.
New York won the first two games, a first in the Finals for the team. San Antonio won Game 3 after the Knicks missed their final three-point attempt. In Game 4, the Knicks rallied from 29 points down in the third quarter, and OG Anunoby won the game with a tip-in with 1.2 seconds remaining. The Knicks won Game 5 by four points to clinch their first title in 53 years.
This was the first NBA Finals since 1995 in which a team won two straight road games to open the series; it was the first since 1993 in which the road team won the first three games. Game 4 saw the Spurs obtain the largest halftime lead of any visiting team in Finals history, then saw the Knicks overcome the largest deficit in Finals history to win. It was the first Finals series since 1975 in which multiple games were won by a single point. It was the first Finals ever in which the teams were within five points of each other in the final five minutes of each game. The average margin of victory was just four points. The Spurs built double-digit leads in all of these games, but lost four of them. Several media outlets called the series the best of the decade and the best five-game series of all time. It was the most-watched NBA Finals since 1998, with an average of 20.6 million viewers per game.