Title: Grammy Award for Best Musical Theater Album
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grammy_Award_for_Best_Musical_Theater_Album
Summary: The Grammy Award for Best Musical Theater Album has been awarded since 1959. The award is generally given to the album's producers, principal vocalist(s), and the composer and lyricist if they have written a new score which comprises 51% or more playing time of the album, though the number of recipients has varied over the category's tenure.
The inaugural award was presented at the 1st Grammy Awards to composer Meredith Willson for his work on his 1957 musical The Music Man. Ethel Merman and Gwen Verdon became the first female recipients the in 1960 when they tied for Gypsy and Redhead.  Thomas Z. Shepard holds the record for most nominations in the category, with 25, while also being tied with Stephen Sondheim for the record for most wins, with six. Tommy Krasker holds the record for most nominations without a win, with twelve. Micki Grant became the first African-American woman to win this award for Don't Bother Me, I Can't Cope (1973). To date, two-time recipient Phillipa Soo is the only woman to win more than one award (for Hamilton and Into the Woods). 
Among shows, cast recordings from Gypsy have been nominated five times and cast recordings of West Side Story, Into the Woods, and Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street have been nominated four times, with Gypsy, West Side Story, Into the Woods, and Les Misérables are the only shows to win twice. Anything Goes, Hello, Dolly!, The King and I, and My Fair Lady hold the record for most nominations without a win, with three. The current recipient of the award is Buena Vista Social Club, which won at the 67th Annual Grammy Awards in 2026.

Title: 66th Annual Grammy Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/66th_Annual_Grammy_Awards
Summary: The 66th Annual Grammy Awards honored the best recordings, compositions, and artists from October 1, 2022, to September 15, 2023, as chosen by the members of The Recording Academy, on February 4, 2024. In its 21st year at the Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, the ceremony was broadcast on CBS and available to stream on Paramount+, and was hosted by Trevor Noah for the fourth time.
The nominations were announced on November 10, 2023; SZA received the most nominations with nine, followed by Victoria Monét, Phoebe Bridgers (solo and as part of boygenius), and Serban Ghenea with seven each. Monét's 2-year-old daughter, Hazel, became the youngest nominee in Grammy Awards history; she was a featured artist on her mother's song "Hollywood", which was nominated for Best Traditional R&B Performance. 
Bridgers was the night's biggest winner, receiving four awards: Three as part of Boygenius (Best Rock Song, Best Rock Performance, and Best Alternative Music Album) and Best Pop Duo/Group Performance alongside SZA. SZA, Monét, and Killer Mike received three awards each. Taylor Swift made history as the first singer to win Album of the Year four times, and Swift announced the release of her album The Tortured Poets Department while accepting the award for Best Pop Vocal Album. Engineer Serban Ghenea extended his record with a fifth award in the category as well. South African singer Tyla was the winner of the inaugural Best African Performance award. Paramore became the first female-fronted rock band to win the Grammy Award for Best Rock Album.
In the big four categories, Swift's Midnights won the aforementioned Album of the Year prize; Miley Cyrus's "Flowers" won Record of the Year; Billie Eilish and her brother Finneas won Song of the Year for "What Was I Made For?" (from the soundtrack of Barbie); and Victoria Monét took home Best New Artist.

Title: Brat (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brat_(album)
Summary: Brat is the sixth studio album by British singer Charli XCX, released on 7 June 2024 through Atlantic Records. It features production by Charli XCX, her longtime executive producer A. G. Cook, Finn Keane, Cirkut, her partner George Daniel, and others. The album draws influence from the 2000s English rave music scene, with a more aggressive club sound than her previous album, Crash (2022).
Commercially, Brat peaked at number one in the UK, Australia, Croatia, Ireland and New Zealand, and reached the top ten in 14 other countries, including the United States, where it marked Charli XCX's highest debut on the Billboard 200 (number three). A deluxe edition, Brat and It's the Same but There's Three More Songs So It's Not, was released on 10 June 2024. A remix album, titled Brat and It's Completely Different but Also Still Brat, featuring 20 guest artists, was released on 11 October 2024.
According to Metacritic, which compiles scores from music critics, Brat is the highest-rated album of 2024 and was the 16th-highest-rated album on the website at the time. The album was shortlisted for the Mercury Prize for 2024 Album of the Year. The cover art and aesthetic originated the cultural phenomenon Brat Summer, and were adopted by U.S. vice president Kamala Harris's 2024 presidential campaign after Charli XCX tweeted about the candidate; however, Charli XCX later stated that she was not being political and the tweet was not meant to be a political endorsement. Brat and its songs were nominated for nine Grammy Awards at the 67th annual ceremony, including Album of the Year, winning three of them, including Best Dance/Electronic Album. During 2024–2025, Charli XCX embarked on the Sweat tour with collaborator Troye Sivan, and the solo Brat Tour in support of the album.

Title: 67th Annual Grammy Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/67th_Annual_Grammy_Awards
Summary: The 67th Annual Grammy Awards honored the best recordings, compositions, and artists from September 16, 2023, to August 30, 2024, as chosen by the members of the Recording Academy, on February 2, 2025. In its 22nd year at Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, the main ceremony was broadcast on CBS and available to stream on Paramount+. It was preceded by the premiere ceremony at the Peacock Theater, starting at 12:30 p.m. PT. Nominations were announced through a YouTube livestream on November 8, 2024. The South African comedian Trevor Noah hosted the ceremony for the fifth consecutive time.
Kendrick Lamar's "Not Like Us" swept all five of its nominations, which included Record of the Year and Song of the Year, tying with "Up, Up and Away" to become the joint-most decorated song in Grammy Awards history. He became the second rap artist to win both awards, after Childish Gambino in 2019. Beyoncé received the most nominations at the ceremony with eleven and won three awards, including Album of the Year and Best Country Album for Cowboy Carter. She became the first Black artist to win Best Country Album and the first Black woman to win Album of the Year since Lauryn Hill in 1999. Chappell Roan took home Best New Artist, and Sierra Ferrell swept the American roots categories, winning all four of her nominations. Best New Artist nominee Doechii won Best Rap Album for Alligator Bites Never Heal, becoming the third woman to win the award after Hill (with the Fugees) in 1997 and Cardi B in 2019. Other three-time winners included Charli XCX and St. Vincent. Other artists that led nominations included Charli XCX and Post Malone with eight each, and Kendrick Lamar and Billie Eilish with seven each.

Title: 68th Annual Grammy Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/68th_Annual_Grammy_Awards
Summary: The 68th Annual Grammy Awards honored the best recordings, compositions, and artists from August 31, 2024, to August 30, 2025, as chosen by the members of the Recording Academy, on February 1, 2026. In its 23rd year at Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles and for the last time since 1973, the ceremony was broadcast on CBS and available to stream on Paramount+. On October 30, 2024, the Recording Academy announced that the Grammys would return to ABC and stream on Hulu and Disney+ beginning in 2027, under a ten-year deal. South African comedian Trevor Noah hosted the ceremony for the sixth consecutive and final time.
Kendrick Lamar was the night's biggest winner for the second consecutive year with five wins, including a second consecutive Record of the Year win with "Luther" and a sweep in the Rap categories, winning Best Rap Album for GNX. His fourth five-win Grammy night in his career, Lamar surpassed Jay-Z to become the most-awarded hip-hop artist in Grammy Awards history. Bad Bunny followed him with three wins, including Album of the Year for Debí Tirar Más Fotos, becoming the first Spanish-language album and third Latino artist to receive the honor. Billie Eilish and her brother Finneas won Song of the Year for "Wildflower", becoming the most-awarded artists in the category in Grammy Awards history with three wins each. Their win also tied them with Adele, Bruno Mars, and Paul Simon for the most wins in the General Field, with seven each. Olivia Dean won Best New Artist, the ninth woman in a row to win the award and the first British winner since Dua Lipa in 2019, while Tyler, The Creator's Chromakopia and Zach Top's Ain't in It for My Health took home the inaugural Best Album Cover and Best Traditional Country Album awards. "Golden" from KPop Demon Hunters won Best Song Written For Visual Media, becoming the first K-pop song to win a Grammy award in any category.
Steven Spielberg won Best Music Film for his role in producing Music by John Williams. This win made him the 22nd person to achieve EGOT status. Although he is not credited in Tony Award records as a winning producer of the musical A Strange Loop (which previously made Jennifer Hudson the 17th EGOT winner, and also counted towards the non-competitive EGOT of Amblin Entertainment co-founder Frank Marshall) at the 75th Tony Awards, he nonetheless received a Tony statuette in that capacity, and he is listed as a producer of A Strange Loop in the Internet Broadway Database. Lamar led the Grammy Awards with nine nominations, while Jack Antonoff, Cirkut, and Lady Gaga followed with seven nominations each.