Title: Kennedy Center
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kennedy_Center
Summary: The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, commonly known as the Kennedy Center, is the national cultural center of the United States, serving as a "living memorial" to John F. Kennedy. Located on the eastern bank of the Potomac River in Washington, D.C., the center opened September 8, 1971, and hosts many genres of performance art, spanning theater, ballet, modern dance, classical music, jazz, pop, psychedelic, and folk music. The Kennedy Center is the residence of the National Symphony Orchestra.
Authorized by the National Cultural Center Act of 1958, which requires that its programming be sustained through private funds, the center represents a public–private partnership. Its activities include educational and outreach initiatives, almost entirely funded through ticket sales and gifts from individuals, corporations, and private foundations. The center receives annual federal funding to cover building maintenance and operations.
The original building, designed by Edward Durell Stone, is administered as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution. An extension designed by Steven Holl opened in 2019. In 1968, George London became the Kennedy Center's first executive director. In 1991, Lawrence Wilker became its first president. In 2014, Deborah Rutter became its third president and the first woman to hold the post.
In 2025, President Donald Trump dismissed the center's trustees and replaced them with people who elected him chairman and voted to add his name to the center, a move later determined to be illegal. Consequently, ticket sales declined, dozens of performances were canceled, and the Washington National Opera ended its half-century of residence. In February 2026, Trump said that the center would close in July for two years of renovations. In May 2026, U.S. district judge Christopher R. "Casey" Cooper blocked the Kennedy Center from closing during its renovations and ordered that Trump's name be removed from the building, which occurred in June.

Title: Donald Trump
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump
Summary: Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is an American politician, media personality, and businessman who is the 47th president of the United States. A member of the Republican Party, he served as the 45th president from 2017 to 2021.
Born into a wealthy New York City family, Trump graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1968 with a bachelor's degree in economics. He became the president of his family's real estate business in 1971, renamed it the Trump Organization, and began acquiring and building skyscrapers, hotels, casinos, and golf courses. He launched side ventures, many licensing the Trump name, and filed for six business bankruptcies in the 1990s and 2000s. From 2004 to 2015, he hosted the reality television show The Apprentice, bolstering his reputation as a wealthy tycoon. Presenting himself as a political outsider, Trump won the 2016 presidential election against Democratic Party nominee Hillary Clinton.
During his first presidency, Trump imposed a travel ban on seven Muslim-majority countries, expanded the Mexico–United States border wall, and enforced a family separation policy on the border. He rolled back environmental and business regulations, signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and appointed three Supreme Court justices. He withdrew the U.S. from agreements on climate and trade and started a trade war with China. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, he downplayed its severity, contradicted health officials, and signed the bipartisan CARES Act. After losing the 2020 presidential election to Joe Biden, Trump refused to concede defeat and attempted to overturn the result, resulting in the January 6 Capitol attack in 2021. He was impeached twice—in 2019 for abuse of power and obstruction of Congress and in 2021 for incitement of insurrection—and acquitted by the Senate both times.
In 2023, Trump was found liable in New York state civil cases for sexual abuse and defamation and for business fraud. In May 2024, he was found guilty in a New York state court on 34 counts of falsifying business records, making him the first U.S. president convicted of a felony. After winning the 2024 presidential election against Vice President Kamala Harris, he was given a no-penalty sentence, and two federal felony indictments for retention of classified documents and obstruction of the 2020 election were dismissed without prejudice.
Trump began his second presidency by initiating mass layoffs of federal workers. He imposed tariffs on nearly all countries at the highest level since the Great Depression and signed the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. His administration's actions—including the targeting of political opponents and civil society, restriction of transgender rights, mass deportation of undocumented immigrants, and extensive use of executive orders—have drawn over 550 lawsuits challenging their legality. In Latin America, he pursued a campaign to attack alleged drug traffickers and ordered a military raid into Venezuela to capture the country's president. In the Middle East, he authorized joint U.S.–Israeli strikes on Iran that began the 2026 Iran war.
Since 2015, Trump's leadership style and political agenda—often referred to as Trumpism—have reshaped the Republican Party's identity. Many of his comments and actions have been characterized as racist or misogynistic. He has made many false or misleading statements during his campaigns and presidency, to a degree unprecedented in American politics, and has promoted conspiracy theories. Trump's actions have been described by researchers as authoritarian and contributing to democratic backsliding. After his first term, scholars and historians ranked him as one of the worst presidents in American history.

Title: Kayleigh McEnany
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kayleigh_McEnany
Summary: Kayleigh Michelle McEnany (; born April 18, 1988) is an American political commentator, media personality, and former political spokesperson who served as the 33rd White House press secretary during the first Trump administration from 2020 to 2021.
Early in the 2016 Republican Party presidential primaries, she was a critic of Donald Trump but over time became one of his staunchest defenders. In 2017, she was appointed national spokesperson for the Republican National Committee. She worked for the Trump 2020 presidential campaign as national press secretary from 2019 to 2020 and again as senior advisor from October 2020 to January 2021.
McEnany began her media career as a producer for Huckabee on Fox News. She later worked as a commentator on CNN. Following her time in the Trump administration, she became an on-air contributor for Fox News and serves as a co-host of Outnumbered and host of Saturday in America with Kayleigh McEnany. She is also a primary guest host for The Ingraham Angle, Jesse Watters Primetime, Hannity, The Five, and Fox & Friends.

Title: Hilary Geary Ross
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hilary_Geary_Ross
Summary: Hilary Geary Ross (born July 4, 1950) is an American businesswoman, author, and philanthropist. She has been married to former Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross since 2004.

Title: False or misleading statements by Donald Trump (second term)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False_or_misleading_statements_by_Donald_Trump_(second_term)
Summary: During his second term as President of the United States, Donald Trump has made numerous false or misleading claims.