Title: One Battle After Another
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_Battle_After_Another
Summary: One Battle After Another is a 2025 American action-comedy thriller film written, directed, and produced by Paul Thomas Anderson. Inspired by the 1990 novel Vineland by Thomas Pynchon, the film's ensemble cast includes Leonardo DiCaprio, Sean Penn, Benicio del Toro, Regina Hall, Teyana Taylor, and Chase Infiniti, in her film debut. It follows a washed-up former revolutionary (DiCaprio) who is brought back into conflict when his enemy (Penn) resurfaces after sixteen years.
Anderson had wanted to adapt Vineland since the early 2000s, and eventually incorporated his own stories into the narrative while writing the screenplay. Principal photography took place in California from January to June 2024 using VistaVision, becoming one of the first films to use the format since the 1960s. Following its premiere on September 8, 2025, One Battle After Another was released in the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures on September 26. With a budget of $130–175 million, it is the most expensive film of Anderson's career and the highest-grossing at over $213 million worldwide.
One Battle After Another received acclaim and numerous accolades. At the 98th Academy Awards, it was nominated for 13 awards and won Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actor (Penn), Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Film Editing, and Best Casting. It also received one win from a record seven nominations at the 32nd Actor Awards; three wins at the 31st Critics' Choice Awards, including Best Picture; four wins at the 83rd Golden Globes, including Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy; and six wins at the 79th British Academy Film Awards, including Best Film. The film was listed by the American Film Institute as one of the top ten films of 2025 and won five awards from the National Board of Review, including Best Film.

Title: Adam Somner
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adam_Somner
Summary: Adam Somner (March 21, 1967 – November 27, 2024) was a British and American assistant director and film producer. An assistant director since 2003 who started to produce some of the films on which he was assistant director on in 2010, he worked multiple times with Martin Scorsese, Steven Spielberg, Alejandro González Iñárritu, Ridley Scott, and Paul Thomas Anderson.
As a producer, Somner was nominated twice for the Academy Award for Best Picture for the Anderson-directed Licorice Pizza (2021) and One Battle After Another (2025), winning posthumously for the latter.

Title: One Battle After Another (soundtrack)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_Battle_After_Another_(soundtrack)
Summary: One Battle After Another (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) is the film score to the 2025 film One Battle After Another, composed by Jonny Greenwood and released through Nonesuch Records on September 26, 2025.

Title: List of accolades received by One Battle After Another
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_accolades_received_by_One_Battle_After_Another
Summary: One Battle After Another is a 2025 American action-comedy-thriller film that garnered numerous awards and nominations in a wide assortment of categories, with recognition for its direction, screenplay, performances, cinematography, editing, score and sound design, among others. The film is written, directed, and co-produced by Paul Thomas Anderson, starring Leonardo DiCaprio, Sean Penn, Benicio del Toro, Regina Hall, Teyana Taylor, and Chase Infiniti. Loosely based on and inspired by Thomas Pynchon's novel Vineland (1990), it follows a group of ex-revolutionaries who reunite to rescue the daughter of one of their own when their enemy resurfaces after sixteen years.
The film had its premiere at the TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles on September 8, 2025, and was released in the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures on September 26. It received critical acclaim and grossed over $200 million worldwide, becoming Anderson's highest-grossing film.
At the 31st Critics' Choice Awards, it won three awards, including Best Picture and Best Director. It was also nominated for nine awards at the 83rd Golden Globes, receiving the most nominations of any film that year and winning four, including Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy. The film also became the most-nominated film in the history of the Screen Actors Guild at the 32nd Actor Awards, with a record-breaking seven nominations and winning one. At the 79th British Academy Film Awards, it led the nominations with fourteen overall, winning six, including Best Film and Best Director.
Furthermore, the film received thirteen nominations at the 98th Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay and four acting nominations (for del Toro, DiCaprio, Penn, and Taylor), the second-most of any film that year, winning six: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actor (Penn), Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Casting, and Best Film Editing.

Title: Michael Bauman (cinematographer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Bauman_(cinematographer)
Summary: Michael Bauman is an American cinematographer, best known for collaboration with director Paul Thomas Anderson. For his work on Anderson's One Battle After Another (2025), he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Cinematography.