Title: To Pimp a Butterfly
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/To_Pimp_a_Butterfly
Summary: To Pimp a Butterfly is the third studio album by the American rapper Kendrick Lamar. It was released on March 15, 2015, by Top Dawg Entertainment, Aftermath Entertainment and Interscope Records. The album was recorded in studios throughout the United States, with production from Sounwave, Terrace Martin, Taz "Tisa" Arnold, Thundercat, Rahki, LoveDragon, Flying Lotus, Pharrell Williams, Boi-1da, Knxwledge, and several other high-profile hip-hop producers, as well as executive production from Dr. Dre and Anthony "Top Dawg" Tiffith. Guest appearances include Thundercat, George Clinton, Bilal, Anna Wise, Snoop Dogg, James Fauntleroy, Ronald Isley, and Rapsody.
Primarily a hip-hop album, To Pimp a Butterfly incorporates numerous other musical styles spanning the history of African-American music, most prominently jazz, funk, and soul. Lyrically, it features political commentary and personal themes concerning African-American culture, racial inequality, depression, and institutional discrimination. This thematic direction was inspired by Lamar's tour of historic sites during his visit to South Africa, such as Nelson Mandela's jail cell on Robben Island.
To Pimp a Butterfly sold 324,000 copies in the United States in its first week of release, earning a chart debut at number one on the US Billboard 200, while also becoming Lamar's first number-one album in the UK. It was eventually certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and sold over one million copies in the United States by 2017. Five singles were released in promotion of the album, including the top 40 hit, lead single "I". Lamar also supported the album with the Kunta's Groove Sessions Tour from late 2015 to early 2016.
The album received widespread acclaim from critics, who praised its musical scope and the social relevance of Lamar's lyrics. It earned Lamar seven nominations at the 2016 Grammy Awards, including a win for Best Rap Album and an Album of the Year nomination. He received four additional nominations for other collaborations from that year, receiving a total of 11 Grammy nominations, which was the most nominations for any rapper in a single night. It topped The Village Voice's annual Pazz & Jop poll of American critics nationwide, and was also ranked as the best album of 2015 by many other publications. In the years following its release, several publications named To Pimp a Butterfly one of the best albums of the 2010s; in 2020, the album was ranked 19th on Rolling Stone's updated list of "The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time".

Title: XXX (Kendrick Lamar song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XXX_(Kendrick_Lamar_song)
Summary: "XXX" (stylized as "XXX.", pronounced "X-Rated") is a song by American rapper Kendrick Lamar, from his fourth studio album Damn, released on April 14, 2017. The eleventh track on the album (fourth on the Collector's Edition of Damn), the song was written by Lamar, Mike Will Made It, DJ Dahi, Mark Spears a.k.a. Sounwave, Anthony Tiffith, Bono, the Edge, Adam Clayton, and Larry Mullen Jr., and produced by Mike Will Made It, DJ Dahi, and Sounwave, with additional production by Top Dawg and Bēkon. The song features samples of the songs "America" by Bēkon and "American Soul" by Irish rock band U2. 
The song charted in multiple countries in 2017. These countries include Ireland, New Zealand, United States of America, Canada, United Kingdom, and Sweden. Though it only appeared for 1 week for the New Zealand, Sweden, and United Kingdom charts, it stayed for 3 weeks on Ireland and United States charts, and remained on the Canada music charts for 4 weeks. The highest the song ever reached on any country's primary music chart was at number 22 in Ireland.

Title: Super Bowl LIX halftime show
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Bowl_LIX_halftime_show
Summary: The Super Bowl LIX halftime show, officially known as the Apple Music Super Bowl LIX Halftime Show for sponsorship reasons, was the halftime entertainment of Super Bowl LIX, which took place on February 9, 2025, at the Caesars Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana. It featured rapper Kendrick Lamar as the headline performer, with guest appearances from singer-songwriter SZA, actor Samuel L. Jackson, tennis player Serena Williams, and record producer Mustard.
On September 8, 2024, the NFL and Apple Music announced its selection of Kendrick Lamar to headline the event, which subsequently received a polarized response. Several major industry rappers criticized the selection, claiming it was a snub against New Orleans native Lil Wayne. Critics mostly praised the selection, saying it was a full-circle moment following Lamar's feud with Drake. Prior to the show, speculation arose over if Lamar would incorporate "Not Like Us" into his performance, following FCC and legal concerns.
The show was televised nationally in the U.S. by Fox and Fox Deportes, with streaming available via Tubi and NFL+. The performance was seen by a combined 133.5 million viewers domestically across all platforms, surpassing Michael Jackson's performance at Super Bowl XXVII in 1993 as the most viewed halftime show in the United States. The show received widespread acclaim, with particular praise for Lamar's performance, its production, tone, and themes. It sparked numerous analyses regarding its social commentary on civil rights in the United States.

Title: Not Like Us
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_Like_Us
Summary: "Not Like Us" is a diss track by the American rapper Kendrick Lamar released amidst his highly publicized feud with the Canadian rapper Drake. It was released on May 4, 2024, through Interscope Records, less than 20 hours after Lamar's previous diss track "Meet the Grahams". A music video, directed by Dave Free and Lamar, was released on American Independence Day (July 4).
Primarily produced by Mustard, with additional work from Sounwave and Sean Momberger, "Not Like Us" is a hyphy-influenced West Coast hip-hop song with a prominent bassline, lively strings, and finger snaps. Lyrically, it continues the themes introduced in "Meet the Grahams". Lamar doubles down on allegations of Drake's sexual interest in minors and sexual misconduct. He also criticizes his cultural identity and relationships with artists based in Atlanta, Georgia, accusing him of exploiting them for street credibility and financial gain.
"Not Like Us" received acclaim from critics, who praised the production, songwriting, and Lamar's performance; they felt it solidified Lamar's victory. It is widely regarded as the feud's best track. "Not Like Us" broke numerous records on the streaming platform Spotify and peaked at number one in ten countries, while charting in the top ten in over 20 additional countries. Drake responded to "Not Like Us" with "The Heart Part 6", in which he denied Lamar's accusations, on May 5. In January 2025, Drake filed a lawsuit against Interscope's parent Universal Music Group (UMG), alleging that "Not Like Us" defamed him and that UMG and Spotify artificially inflated its popularity; the lawsuit was dismissed in October 2025.
"Not Like Us" won all five of its Grammy nominations at the 67th ceremony: Record of the Year, Song of the Year, Best Rap Performance, Best Rap Song, and Best Music Video. It is tied with the 5th Dimension's "Up, Up and Away" as the most-awarded song in Grammy history. Lamar first performed "Not Like Us" live on Juneteenth 2024 during The Pop Out: Ken & Friends, where he played it five consecutive times. He performed it when he headlined the Super Bowl LIX halftime show in February 2025 and throughout his Grand National Tour from April to October 2025.

Title: GNX (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNX_(album)
Summary: GNX is the sixth studio album by American rapper Kendrick Lamar. It was surprise-released on November 22, 2024, through PGLang and Interscope Records. The album features guest appearances from SZA, Dody6, Lefty Gunplay, Wallie the Sensei, Siete7x, Roddy Ricch, AzChike, Hitta J3, YoungThreat, and Peysoh. Lamar produced the album primarily with Sounwave and Jack Antonoff; other producers include Mustard, Sean Momberger, and Kamasi Washington.
Titled after the Buick Regal model, GNX is Lamar's first album to be released after his departure from longtime labels Top Dawg Entertainment and Aftermath Entertainment. GNX was released to widespread acclaim. Multiple critics hailed it as a successful reimagination of West Coast hip-hop and one of the best albums of 2024. The album was Lamar's fifth number one on the US Billboard 200 chart. It also topped the charts in numerous countries, including Canada, Netherlands, Sweden, Australia, Denmark, and the UK; and top five in Poland, Nigeria, France, and Hungary.
GNX was supported by four singles: the Billboard Hot 100 number ones "Squabble Up" and "Luther", the number two hit "TV Off", and "Peekaboo". Lamar and SZA performed live at the Super Bowl LIX halftime show and embarked on the co-headlining Grand National Tour in 2025 to promote the album as well as SZA's Lana.
The album and its songs received eight nominations at the 68th Grammy Awards, including Album of the Year, winning four for Best Rap Album, with "Luther" winning Record of the Year and Best Melodic Rap Performance while "TV Off" won Best Rap Song. With these wins, Lamar became the most awarded rapper in Grammy history with 27 career wins.