Title: Smartphone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smartphone
Summary: A smartphone is a mobile device that combines the functionality of a traditional mobile phone (feature phone) with advanced computing capabilities. It typically has a touchscreen interface, allowing users to access a wide range of applications and services, such as web browsing, email, and social media, as well as multimedia playback and streaming. Smartphones have built-in cameras, GPS navigation, and support for various communication methods, including voice calls, text messaging, and internet-based messaging apps. Smartphones are distinguished from older-design feature phones by their more advanced hardware capabilities and extensive mobile operating systems, access to the internet, business applications, mobile payments, and multimedia functionality, including music, video, gaming, radio, and television.
Smartphones typically feature metal–oxide–semiconductor (MOS) integrated circuit (IC) chips, various sensors, and support for multiple wireless communication protocols. Examples of smartphone sensors include accelerometers, barometers, gyroscopes, and magnetometers; they can be used by both pre-installed and third-party software to enhance functionality. Wireless communication standards supported by smartphones include LTE, 5G NR, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and satellite navigation. By the mid-2020s, manufacturers began integrating satellite messaging and emergency services, expanding their utility in remote areas without reliable cellular coverage. Smartphones have largely replaced personal digital assistant (PDA) devices, handheld/palm-sized PCs, portable media players (PMP), point-and-shoot cameras, camcorders, and, to a lesser extent, handheld video game consoles, e-reader devices, pocket calculators, and GPS tracking units.
Following the rising popularity of the iPhone in the late 2000s, the majority of smartphones have featured thin, slate-like form factors with large, capacitive touch screens with support for multi-touch gestures rather than physical keyboards. Most modern smartphones have the ability for users to download or purchase additional applications from a centralized app store. They often have support for cloud storage and cloud synchronization, and virtual assistants. Since the early 2010s, improved hardware and faster wireless communication have bolstered the growth of the smartphone industry. As of 2014, over a billion smartphones are sold globally every year. In 2019 alone, 1.54 billion smartphone units were shipped worldwide. As of 2020, 75.05 percent of the world population were smartphone users. Although smartphone use has been associated to some extent with convenience and life satisfaction, a variety of negative effects on physical, mental, and cognitive health have also been identified.

Title: IPhone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPhone
Summary: The iPhone is a line of smartphones developed and marketed by Apple that run iOS, the company's own mobile operating system. The first-generation iPhone was announced by then–Apple CEO and co-founder Steve Jobs on January 9, 2007, at Macworld 2007, and first launched in June 2007. Since then, Apple has annually released new iPhone models and iOS versions; the latest models are the iPhone 17, the entry-level iPhone 17e, the iPhone Air, the higher-end iPhone 18 Pro and Pro Max, and the iPhone Duo. As of July 2025, more than 3 billion iPhones have been sold. Apple has been the largest vendor of mobile phones since 2023.
The original iPhone was the first mobile phone to use multi-touch technology. Throughout its history, the iPhone has gained larger, higher-resolution displays, video-recording functionality, waterproofing, and many accessibility features. Up to the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus, iPhones had a single button on the front panel, with the iPhone 5s and later integrating a Touch ID fingerprint sensor. Since the iPhone X, models have switched to a nearly bezel-less front screen design with Face ID facial recognition in place of Touch ID for authentication, and increased use of gestures in place of the home button for navigation.
The iPhone, which operates using Apple's proprietary iOS operating system, is one of the two major smartphone platforms in the world, alongside Android. The first-generation iPhone was described by Steve Jobs as a "revolution" for the mobile phone industry. The iPhone has been credited with popularizing the slate smartphone form factor, and with creating a large market for smartphone apps, or "app economy", laying the foundation for the mobile-device market boom. In addition to the apps that come pre-installed on iOS, there are nearly 2 million apps available for download from Apple's mobile distribution marketplace, the App Store, as of August 2024.

Title: Usage share of operating systems
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_operating_systems
Summary: The usage share of an operating system is the percentage of computers running that operating system (OS). These statistics are estimates as usage data is difficult to obtain and measure. Reliable primary sources are limited and data collection methodology is not formally agreed upon.
Devices connecting to the World Wide Web log which operating system they are using, and so are an approximate measure of OS usage among consumer devices. As of December 2025, among all devices Android, which uses the Linux kernel, is the world's most common operating system to connect to the web with 34.9% of the global market, followed by Windows with 29.98%, iOS with 16.81%, macOS with 2.03%, and other operating systems with 9.06% total.
Between different classes of devices:

For smartphones and other mobile devices, Android has 72% share of traffic, and Apple's iOS has 28%.
For desktop computers and laptops, Microsoft Windows has 62.16%, followed by unknown operating systems at 18.75%, Mac OS at 14.58%, desktop Linux at 3.09%, then Google's ChromeOS at 1.42%, as of June 2026.
For tablets, Apple's iPadOS (a variant of iOS) has 51.23% share and Android has 48.61% worldwide.
Of the top 500 most powerful supercomputers, all since November 2017 have used Linux. 
The global server operating system market share has Linux leading with a 63.1% market share, followed by Windows, Unix and other operating systems.
The most numerous type of device with an operating system are embedded systems. Not all embedded systems have operating systems, instead running their application code on the "bare metal"; of those that do have operating systems, a high percentage are standalone or do not have a web browser, which makes their usage share difficult to measure. Some operating systems used in embedded systems are more widely used than some of those mentioned above. For example, modern Intel microprocessors contain an embedded management processor running a version of the Minix operating system.

Title: Vivo (technology company)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vivo_(technology_company)
Summary: Vivo Mobile Communication Co., Ltd., d/b/a vivo (stylized as all lowercase), is a Chinese multinational technology company headquartered in Dongguan, Guangdong, that designs and develops smartphones, smartphone accessories, software, and online services. The company develops software for its phones, distributed through its V-Appstore, with iManager included in their proprietary, Android-based operating system, Origin OS in mainland China, and currently discontinued Funtouch OS elsewhere. It has 40,000 employees, with 10 R&D centers in Shenzhen, Dongguan, Nanjing, Beijing, Hangzhou, Shanghai, Xi'an, Taipei, Tokyo, and San Diego.

Title: 2025–present global memory supply shortage
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025%E2%80%93present_global_memory_supply_shortage
Summary: A global computer memory supply shortage started in 2025 due to supply constraints and rapid price escalation in the semiconductor memory market, particularly affecting DRAM and NAND flash integrated circuits. This shortage has been referred to in media outlets as "RAMmageddon" or the "RAMpocalypse". Unlike the 2020–2023 global chip shortage, which stemmed primarily from pandemic-related supply chain disruptions from COVID-19, this shortage is driven by the intentional reallocation of manufacturing capacity toward highly profitable products intended for AI data center development, creating a scarcity of integrated circuits intended for the consumer and enterprise markets. According to a 2026 Kearney's PERLab analysis, the shortage is expected to last at least until 2030. In June 2026, Micron Technology CEO Sanjay Mehrotra expected the shortage to last through 2027, and supply to gradually improve by 2028. In August 2026, Jaejune Kim of Samsung Electronics expects the shortage to continue through 2028, while Kwak Noh-Jung of SK Hynix expects it to persist until 2030.