Title: Maureen O'Hara
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maureen_O%27Hara
Summary: Maureen O'Hara (née FitzSimons; 17 August 1920 – 24 October 2015) was an Irish and American actress and singer who became successful in Hollywood from the 1940s through to the 1960s. She was a natural redhead who was known for playing passionate but sensible heroines, often in Westerns and adventure films. She worked with director John Ford and long-time friend John Wayne on numerous projects.
O'Hara was born into a Catholic family and raised in Dublin, Ireland. She aspired to become an actress from a very young age. She trained with the Rathmines Theatre Company from the age of 10 and at the Abbey Theatre from the age of 14. She was given a screen test, which was deemed unsatisfactory, but Charles Laughton saw potential in her and arranged for her to co-star with him in Alfred Hitchcock's Jamaica Inn in 1939. Laughton insisted that she change her surname from FitzSimons against her wishes, and she became "O'Hara". She moved to Hollywood the same year to appear with him in the production of The Hunchback of Notre Dame, and was given a contract by RKO Pictures. From there, she went on to enjoy a long and highly successful career, and acquired the nickname "the Queen of Technicolor".
O'Hara appeared in films such as How Green Was My Valley (1941) (her first collaboration with John Ford), The Black Swan with Tyrone Power (1942), The Spanish Main (1945), Sinbad the Sailor (1947), the Christmas classic Miracle on 34th Street (1947) with John Payne and Natalie Wood, and Comanche Territory (1950). O'Hara made her first film with John Wayne, the actor with whom she is most closely associated, in Rio Grande (1950); this was followed by The Quiet Man (1952), The Wings of Eagles (1957), McLintock! (1963) and Big Jake (1971). Such was her strong chemistry with Wayne that many assumed they were married or in a relationship. In the 1960s, O'Hara increasingly turned to more motherly roles as she aged, appearing in films such as The Deadly Companions (1961), The Parent Trap (1961) and The Rare Breed (1966). She retired from the industry in 1971, but returned 20 years later to appear with John Candy in Only the Lonely (1991).
In the late 1970s, O'Hara helped run her third husband Charles F. Blair Jr.'s flying business in Saint Croix in the United States Virgin Islands, and edited a magazine, but later sold them to spend more time in Glengarriff in Ireland. She was married three times, and had one daughter, Bronwyn, with her second husband. Her autobiography, 'Tis Herself, published in 2004, became a New York Times bestseller. In 2009, The Guardian named her one of the best actors never to have received an Academy Award nomination. In November 2014, she was presented with an Honorary Academy Award with the inscription "To Maureen O'Hara, one of Hollywood's brightest stars, whose inspiring performances glowed with passion, warmth and strength". In 2020, she was ranked number one on The Irish Times list of Ireland's greatest film actors.

Title: Eel Weir State Park
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eel_Weir_State_Park
Summary: Eel Weir State Park is a 16-acre (0.065 km2) state park in St. Lawrence County, New York. The park is located in the St. Lawrence Valley on the Oswegatchie River approximately two miles (3.2 km) from Black Lake and approximately eight miles (13 km) southwest of Ogdensburg.

Title: Walt Whitman Birthplace State Historic Site
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walt_Whitman_Birthplace_State_Historic_Site
Summary: The Walt Whitman Birthplace State Historic Site is a state historic site in West Hills, New York, listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The site preserves the birthplace of American poet Walt Whitman.

Title: Dead & Company
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dead_%26_Company
Summary: Dead & Company is an American rock band that formed in 2015 with a lineup of former Grateful Dead members Bob Weir (guitar and vocals), Mickey Hart (drums), and Bill Kreutzmann (drums), along with John Mayer (guitar and vocals), Oteil Burbridge (bass, percussion, and vocals), and Jeff Chimenti (keyboards).  Jay Lane replaced Kreutzmann on drums in 2023.
Dead & Company primarily perform Grateful Dead covers and is credited with popularizing Grateful Dead music to a younger audience.  In 2023, Lane replaced Kreutzmann as the band's second drummer for their final tour. Their final tour was attended by over 840,000 fans, with the final show taking place in San Francisco, the birthplace of the Grateful Dead.
At the tour's conclusion, John Mayer reassured fans that "Dead & Company is still a band," but the timing of future shows was uncertain. Several months later, the band began a residency at Sphere in Las Vegas consisting of 30 shows from May to August 2024. The band returned to Sphere for an 18-show residency from March through May 2025. Most recently, the band performed a three-night run in August 2025 at Golden Gate Park in San Francisco, celebrating 60 years of the Grateful Dead. These shows were Weir's final live performances before his death on January 10, 2026.
After Weir's death Dead & Company made no announcement about whether or not they would continue without him. In August 2026 Mayer gave an interview in which he suggested that he might be done playing with the band.
A documentary film about Deadheads following the band in 2023, called Summer Tour, was released in 2026.

Title: Van Hoevenberg Trail
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Van_Hoevenberg_Trail
Summary: The Van Hoevenberg Trail is a hiking trail that leads southward from Adirondak Loj to the peak of Mount Marcy, the highest point in New York State. Located in the High Peaks Wilderness Area, it is the shortest and most frequently-used route to get to the peak of Mount Marcy. It spans 7.4 miles (11.2 km) to the summit, a lengthy 14.8-mile (22.4 km) roundtrip. A large section of the trail is suitable for alpine skiing and snowboarding. Hiking the trail is considered at least moderately difficult. The trail passes over Marcy Dam.