Title: Prime Minister of India
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_India
Summary: The prime minister of India (ISO: Bhāratīya Gaṇarājyasya Pradhānamantrī) is the head of government of the Republic of India. Executive authority is vested in the prime minister and his chosen Council of Ministers, despite the President of India being the nominal head of the executive.  The prime minister has to be a member of one of the houses of bicameral Parliament of India, alongside heading the respective house. The prime minister and the cabinet are at all times responsible to the Lok Sabha, the lower house of the Parliament.
The sitting prime minister ranks third in the Order of Precedence of India and is appointed by the president of India; however, the prime minister has to enjoy the confidence of the majority of Lok Sabha members, who are directly elected every five years, lest the prime minister shall resign. The prime minister can be a member of the Lok Sabha or the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of the parliament. The prime minister controls the selection and dismissal of members of the Union Council of Ministers and allocation of posts to members within the government.
The longest-serving prime minister was the first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, whose tenure lasted 16 years and 286 days. His premiership was followed by Lal Bahadur Shastri's short tenure and Indira Gandhi's 11- and 4-year-long tenures, with both politicians belonging to the Indian National Congress. After Indira Gandhi's assassination, her son Rajiv Gandhi took charge until 1989, when a decade with five unstable governments began. This was followed by the full terms of P. V. Narasimha Rao, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Manmohan Singh, and Narendra Modi, who is the current prime minister of India, serving since 26 May 2014. He is the first non-Congress leader to become PM after  consecutive general elections and secure a third successive term (2014, 2019, 2024). The first prime minister to do so was Jawaharlal Nehru, who secured successive terms following the victory in the general elections of 1946, 1952, 1957, and 1962.

Title: India national cricket team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/India_national_cricket_team
Summary: The India men's national cricket team represents India in international cricket. It is governed by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and is a full member nation of the International Cricket Council with Test, One Day International (ODI) and Twenty20 International (T20I) status. India are the current holders of the T20 World Cup, the ICC Champions Trophy, and the Asia Cup. 
The team has played 601 Test matches, winning 187, losing 188, with 225 draws and 1 tie. India have played in two of the three World Test Championship finals, finishing runners-up twice in 2021 and 2023.
The team has played 1,081 ODI matches, winning 575, losing 452, tying 10, and with 44 ending in a no-result. India have played in the World Cup final four times and have won the title twice in 1983 and 2011. They have also won the Champions Trophy, a record three times in 2002s, 2013, and 2025. India have also won the ODI Asia Cup for a record seven times. 
The team has played 289 T20I matches, winning 192, losing 81, tying 7, and with 9 ending in a no-result. India have played in the T20 World Cup final four times and have won the title, a record three times in 2007, 2024, and 2026. India have also won the T20I Asia Cup for a record two times.

Title: Premier Automobiles Limited
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Premier_Automobiles_Limited
Summary: Premier Ltd (formerly known as The Premier Automobiles Limited) was an Indian automotive manufacturer company, based in Mumbai. The company was owned by the Walchand Group and was established by Walchand Hirachand as Premier Automobiles Ltd (PAL) in 1944 with the encouragement and support of Sir. M. Visvesvaraya. The company was founded in 1903 as Walchand-Phatak Co. Later on, the name was changed to TATA Constructions. Further, after the exit of TATA's name was again changed to Premier which was engaged in work of contract & construction business. In October 1947, Premier Ltd manufactured the first Indian made trucks and cars rolled out onto the streets of independent India. Premier is well-known for its Premier Padmini which ruled the Indian car market and its popularity peaked during 1970s and 80s.

Title: Sports broadcasting contracts in India
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_broadcasting_contracts_in_India
Summary: Sports broadcasting contracts in India include:

Title: Women's Premier League (cricket)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Women%27s_Premier_League_(cricket)
Summary: The Women's Premier League (WPL) is a professional women's Twenty20 (T20) cricket league in India, organised by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). Founded in 2022, it features five city-based franchise teams. The WPL is one of the fastest-growing cricket leagues in the world.
It is held annually since the first season in 2023. Since 2026, it is held between January and February with a dedicated window in the ICC Future Tours Programme.
As of 2026, there have been four seasons of the tournament with Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bengaluru having won two titles each.