Title: London Monarchs
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Monarchs
Summary: The London Monarchs were a professional American football team in NFL Europe and its predecessor league, the World League of American Football (WLAF). The Monarchs played their final season in 1998 as the England Monarchs. In 1999, they were replaced by the new Berlin Thunder.

Title: Stevenson High School (Lincolnshire, Illinois)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stevenson_High_School_(Lincolnshire,_Illinois)
Summary: Adlai E. Stevenson High School (AESHS), commonly called Stevenson High School (SHS), is a four-year public high school in Lincolnshire, Illinois, United States. It is named after Adlai Stevenson II, the 31st governor of Illinois.

Title: BAFA National Leagues
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BAFA_National_Leagues
Summary: The BAFA National Leagues (BAFANL) is the primary American football domestic league competition in Great Britain. Originally formed in 1983, the league is run by the British American Football Association to coordinate contact football within England, Scotland and Wales. The top level is the Premier Division and the BritBowl is the annual final championship game. The league was reformed in 2010 following the collapse of the British American Football League, which had run in a number of different guises since the early 1980s. Previous names of the league were the UKAFL (UK American Football League), the Budweiser League and the BNGL (British National Gridiron League). From 1998 until 2005 the league was known as the BSL (British Senior League). Tensions grew throughout 2009 between the directors of BAFL and those of the governing body the British American Football Association, and at the beginning of 2010 the BAFL formally, but unconstitutionally, withdrew from BAFA. This led to uproar from the teams within BAFL, ultimately signalling the end for BAFL as an entity. The league ceased operations on 1 April 2010 and was replaced by the BAFA Community Leagues for the 2010 season, rebranding in 2011 to become the BAFANL. Notable players to have come from the BAFANL who have gone on to play in the NFL are Efe Obada, Aden Durde, Jermaine Allen and Marvin Allen.
The league operates a summer season and begins in April and plays through until August, with play-off games running into September. There are currently 60 teams who compete in 12 regional divisions across three levels of football. The 12 teams who contest both the two BAFA Premier Divisions compete to reach the annual Britbowl final, whereas teams in the second and third level aim to earn promotion to the Division above, attempting to reach one of the Divisional bowl finals. The current champions are the Bristol Aztecs who won the 2026 Britbowl as well as the Premier Division South, after defeating the Manchester Titans 49-10 in the 2026 Britbowl final.

Title: Potential London NFL franchise
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Potential_London_NFL_franchise
Summary: A potential London NFL franchise is a hypothetical National Football League (NFL) American football team based in London, formed as a new expansion team or by relocating one of the existing 32 NFL teams currently based in the United States. Should the league establish a team in London, it would become the first of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada to establish a franchise outside either of those two countries.
A London NFL franchise would be intended to grow the league's revenues and provide further access to the British and European markets. However, the agreement of league owners is needed to undertake an expansion or relocation, and a London franchise would face financial, legal and logistical challenges. Possible home stadiums for the London team include one or more of Wembley Stadium, Twickenham Stadium or Tottenham Hotspur Stadium.
Since 2007, the league has held multiple regular season games in London each season as part of the NFL International Series, allowing the league to test solutions to some of the challenges facing a hypothetical London franchise.

Title: Aidan O'Connell
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aidan_O%27Connell
Summary: Aidan James O'Connell (born September 1, 1998) is an American professional football  quarterback for the Las Vegas Raiders of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for the Purdue Boilermakers and was selected by the Raiders in the fourth round of the 2023 NFL draft.