Title: List of islands by area
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_islands_by_area
Summary: This list includes 329 islands in the world larger than 1,000 km2 (390 sq mi). For size and location reference, the four continental landmasses are also included. All landmasses are arranged in descending order.

Title: List of largest empires
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_largest_empires
Summary: Several empires in human history have been contenders for the largest of all time, depending on definition and mode of measurement. Possible ways of measuring size include area, population, economy, and power. Of these, area is the most commonly used because it has a relatively precise definition and can be feasibly measured with some degree of accuracy; nevertheless, even area is limited in this regard because of the difficulty in defining the boundaries of empires due to things like the indirect nature of imperial control and sparsely inhabited or even uninhabited areas that may nominally have been controlled by an empire but not meaningfully ruled by it.
Estonian political scientist Rein Taagepera, who published a series of academic articles about the territorial extents of historical empires between 1978 and 1997, and a book in 2024, defined an empire in this context as "any relatively large sovereign political entity whose components are not sovereign" and its size as the area over which the empire has some undisputed military and taxation prerogatives. The list is not exhaustive as there is a lack of available data for several empires; for this reason and because of the inherent uncertainty in the estimates, no rankings are given.

Title: List of countries and dependencies by area
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_and_dependencies_by_area
Summary: This is a list of the world's countries and their dependencies, ranked by total area, including land and water.
This list includes entries that are not limited to those in the ISO 3166-1 standard, which covers sovereign states and dependent territories. All 193 member states of the United Nations plus the two observer states are given a rank number. Largely unrecognised states not in ISO 3166-1 are included in the list in ranked order. The areas of such largely unrecognised states are in most cases also included in the areas of the more widely recognised states that claim the same territory; see the notes in the "Notes" column for each country for clarification.
Not included in the list are entities such as the European Union which do not encompass any non-overlapping preclaimed land. 
This list includes three measurements of area:

Total area: the sum of land and water areas within international boundaries and coastlines.
Land area: the aggregate of all land within international boundaries and coastlines, excluding water area.
Inland water area: the sum of the surface areas of all inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, and rivers) within international boundaries and coastlines. Coastal internal waters may be included. Territorial seas, contiguous zones and exclusive economic zones are not included unless otherwise noted.
Total area is taken from the United Nations Statistics Division unless otherwise noted. Land and water are taken from the Food and Agriculture Organization unless otherwise noted. The CIA World Factbook is most often used when different UN departments disagree. Other sources and details for each entry may be specified in the relevant footnote.

Title: List of largest cities
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_largest_cities
Summary: The United Nations uses three definitions for what constitutes a city, as not all cities in all jurisdictions are classified using the same criteria. Cities may be defined as the cities proper, their metropolitan regions, or the extent of their urban area. A complicating factor is that many large cities in the world have not only homeless or the unhoused, but also vast slum communities. This leads to official census data being less accurate in representing the actual number of residents in a given area.

Title: Largest organisms
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Largest_organisms
Summary: This article lists the largest organisms for various types of life and mostly considers extant species, which found on Earth can be determined according to various aspects of an organism's size, such as: mass, volume, area, length, height, or even genome size. Some organisms group together to form a superorganism (such as ants or bees), but such are not classed as single large organisms. The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest structure composed of living entities, stretching 2,000 km (1,200 mi) but contains many organisms of many types of species.
When considering singular entities, the largest organisms are clonal colonies which can spread over large areas. Pando, a clonal colony of the quaking aspen tree, is widely considered to be the largest such organism by mass. Even if such colonies are excluded, trees retain their dominance of this listing, with the giant sequoia being the most massive tree. In 2006, a huge clonal colony of the seagrass Posidonia oceanica was discovered south of the island of Ibiza. At 8 kilometres (5 mi) across, and estimated at 100,000 years old, it may be one of the largest and oldest clonal colonies on Earth.
Among animals, all of the largest species are marine mammals, specifically whales. The blue whale is believed to be the largest animal to have ever lived. The living land animal classification is also dominated by mammals, with the African bush elephant being the largest of these.