Title: National Basketball Association
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Basketball_Association
Summary: The National Basketball Association (NBA) is a professional basketball league in North America composed of 30 teams (29 in the United States and 1 in Canada). The NBA is one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada and is considered the premier professional basketball league in the world. The league is headquartered in New York City and Secaucus, New Jersey.
The NBA was created on August 3, 1949, with the merger of the Basketball Association of America (BAA) and the National Basketball League (NBL). The league later adopted the BAA's history and considers its founding on June 6, 1946, as its own. In 1976, the NBA and the American Basketball Association (ABA) merged, adding four franchises to the NBA. The NBA's regular season runs from October to April, with each team playing 82 games. The league's playoff tournament extends into June, culminating with the NBA Finals championship series.
The NBA is a member of USA Basketball (USAB), which is recognized by the International Basketball Federation (FIBA) as the governing body for basketball in the United States. The NBA is the second-wealthiest professional sports league in the world by revenue after the National Football League (NFL). As of 2020, NBA players are the world's highest paid athletes by average annual salary per player. In 1996, the NBA created a women's league, the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA). The NBA also operates the NBA G League, NBA 2K League, and the Basketball Africa League.
The Boston Celtics have the most NBA championships with 18, winning most recently in 2024. The New York Knicks are the reigning league champions, having defeated the San Antonio Spurs in the 2026 NBA Finals.

Title: National Collegiate Athletic Association
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Collegiate_Athletic_Association
Summary: The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is a nonprofit organization that regulates student athletics among about 1,100 schools in the United States, and 1 in Canada. It also organizes the athletic programs of colleges and helps over 500,000 college student athletes who compete annually in college sports. The headquarters is located in Indianapolis, Indiana.
Until the 1956–57 academic year, the NCAA was a single division for all schools. That year, the NCAA split into the University Division and the College Division. In August 1973, the current three-division system of Division I, Division II, and Division III was adopted by the NCAA membership in a special convention. Under NCAA rules, Division I and Division II schools can offer athletic scholarships to students. Division III schools may not offer any athletic scholarships. Generally, larger schools compete in Division I and smaller schools in II and III. Division I football was further divided into I-A and I-AA in 1978, while Division I programs that did not have football teams were known as I-AAA. In 2006, Divisions I-A and I-AA were, respectively, renamed the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) and Football Championship Subdivision (FCS). In its 2022–23 fiscal year, the NCAA generated $1.28 billion in revenue, $945 million (74%) of which came from airing rights to the Division I men's basketball tournament.
Controversially, the NCAA substantially restricts the kinds of benefits and compensation (including paid salary) that collegiate athletes could receive from their schools. The consensus among economists is these caps for men's basketball and football players benefit the athletes' schools (through rent-seeking) at the expense of the athletes. Economists have subsequently characterized the NCAA as a cartel. In 2021, the Supreme Court of the United States unanimously ruled that some of these NCAA restrictions on student athletes are in violation of US antitrust law. The NCAA settled a lawsuit in May 2024 allowing member institutions to pay Division I athletes who have played since 2016.

Title: Women's association football
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Women%27s_association_football
Summary: Women's association football, more commonly known as women's football or women's soccer, is the team sport of association football played by women. It is played at the professional level in multiple countries, and about 200 national teams participate internationally. The same rules, known as the Laws of the Game, are used for both women's and men's football. The United States is the most successful nation in women's football, having won 4 Women's World Cups and 5 Olympic gold medals. The second most successful nation in women's football is Germany, with 2 Women's World Cups and 1 Olympic gold medal. 
After the "first golden age" of women's football occurred in the United Kingdom in the 1920s, with one match attracting over 50,000 spectators, the Football Association instituted a ban from 1921 to 1970 in England that disallowed women's football on the grounds used by its member clubs. In many other nations, female footballers faced similarly hostile treatment and bans by male-dominated organisations.
In the 1970s, international women's football tournaments were extremely popular, and the oldest surviving continental championship was founded, the AFC Women's Asian Cup. However, a woman did not speak at the FIFA Congress until 1986 (Ellen Wille). The FIFA Women's World Cup was first held in China in 1991 and has since become a major television event in many countries.

Title: Vietnam national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vietnam_national_football_team
Summary: The Vietnam national football team (Vietnamese: Đội tuyển bóng đá quốc gia Việt Nam) is the national football team represents Vietnam in senior men's international football and is governed by the Vietnam Football Federation.
Football was introduced to Vietnam by the French in the late 19th century during the colonial period, and the country's first recorded international match took place in Saigon on 16 January 1949. During the 20th century, political division led to the existence of two separate national teams. South Vietnam as the State of Vietnam and Republic of Vietnam, governed by the Vietnam Football Association, joined FIFA in 1952 and the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) in 1954 before the country's division, and participated in tournaments such as the AFC Asian Cup. The North as the Democratic Republic of Vietnam only joined FIFA and the AFC in 1964 and mainly competed in friendly and solidarity tournaments with other communist nations. Following the reunification of North and South Vietnam in 1975 (officially in 1976), the football associations merged into the Vietnam Football Federation. Because both North and South Vietnam were members of FIFA, results of their national teams are counted as part of the overall record of the Vietnam national team.
After reunification, Vietnam did not field a senior national team in international competitions for over a decade. The country made its return at the 1991 SEA Games, marking its reintegration into regional football. Since then, Vietnam has emerged as one of Southeast Asia's strongest sides, winning the ASEAN Championship four times (2008, 2018, 2024, 2026) and regularly competing at continental level. The team reached the quarter-finals of the Asian Cup in 2007, when it co-hosted the tournament, and again in 2019. In World Cup qualification, Vietnam advanced to the third round for the first time in 2022.

Title: Kansas City Chiefs
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kansas_City_Chiefs
Summary: The Kansas City Chiefs are a professional American football team based in Kansas City, Missouri. The Chiefs compete in the National Football League (NFL) as a member of the American Football Conference (AFC) West division. The team plays its home games at Arrowhead Stadium, with a New Chiefs Stadium slated to open in 2031.
Established in 1959 as a charter member of the American Football League (AFL), the Chiefs started playing in 1960 as the Dallas Texans, owned by league founder Lamar Hunt. In 1963, the team moved to Kansas City, and adopted its current name. The Chiefs joined the NFL in 1970 as a result of the AFL–NFL merger; entering the 2024 season, the team is valued at over US$4.85 billion. After Hunt's death in 2006, his wife, Norma, and children became legal owners of the team. After Norma's death in 2023, the Hunt children inherited her stake in the franchise. Clark Hunt, one of the Hunts' children, has served as chairman and CEO since 2006 and is the ultimate authority over personnel decisions. He is also the team representative at league owner meetings.
The Chiefs were victorious and won three AFL championships, in 1962, 1966, and 1969, and were the second AFL team (after the New York Jets) to defeat an NFL team in a Super Bowl when they won Super Bowl IV, which was the final game before the league merger went into full effect. The Chiefs were also the second team, after the Green Bay Packers (whom they played in Super Bowl I), to appear in more than one Super Bowl (and the first AFL team to do so) and the first to appear in the championship game in two different decades. Despite this playoff success, the Chiefs failed to find success in the playoffs for decades. They only made the playoffs twice from 1970 to 1989, and managed only five other winning seasons during this time. While the Chiefs have been a contender for most of the time since the 1990s, they lost ten of twelve playoff games from 1993 to 2017, including an eight-game losing streak.
Since then, the Chiefs have risen to dynastic success under head coach Andy Reid, quarterback Patrick Mahomes, tight end Travis Kelce, and defensive tackle Chris Jones, appearing in five Super Bowls since 2019 and being victorious in three: LIV, LVII, and LVIII.