Title: Max Verstappen
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Max_Verstappen
Summary: Max Emilian Verstappen (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈmɑks fɛrˈstɑpə(n)]; born 30 September 1997) is a Dutch and Belgian racing driver who competes under the Dutch flag in Formula One for Red Bull Racing. Verstappen has won four Formula One World Drivers' Championship titles, which he won consecutively from 2021 to 2024 with Red Bull, and has won 71 Grands Prix across 12 seasons.
Born in Hasselt and raised in Maaseik, Verstappen is the son of Dutch former Formula One driver Jos Verstappen and Belgian former kart racer Sophie Kumpen. After a successful karting career—culminating in his record-breaking 2013 season—Verstappen graduated to junior formulae. Progressing directly to FIA European Formula 3, Verstappen broke several records on his way to third in the championship in his rookie season with Van Amersfoort. Aged 17, Verstappen signed for Toro Rosso in 2015 as part of the Red Bull Junior Team, becoming the youngest driver in Formula One history at the Australian Grand Prix. Following several points finishes in his debut season, Verstappen retained his seat for 2016 before being promoted to parent team Red Bull to partner Daniel Ricciardo after four rounds. On debut for Red Bull, aged 18, Verstappen won the Spanish Grand Prix, becoming the youngest-ever driver to win a Formula One Grand Prix. Verstappen achieved multiple race wins in his 2017 and 2018 campaigns, before finishing third in both the 2019 and 2020 World Drivers' Championships under Honda power.
Verstappen won his maiden title in 2021 after overtaking Lewis Hamilton on the final lap of the last race of the season, becoming the first World Drivers' Champion from the Netherlands. Verstappen won the next two championships in 2022 and 2023, overturning the largest points deficit in Formula One history in the former and breaking numerous records across both seasons. He secured his fourth consecutive title in 2024 after winning nine Grands Prix, including a widely acclaimed wet-weather performance in São Paulo, to become the first driver to win the championship driving for a third-placed constructor in 41 years. He finished runner-up by two points in a three-way title battle with Lando Norris and Oscar Piastri in 2025.
As of the 2026 Spanish Grand Prix, Verstappen has achieved 71 race wins, 48 pole positions, 37 fastest laps, and 133 podiums in Formula One. In addition to being the youngest Grand Prix winner, he holds several Formula One records, including the most wins in a season (19), the most podium finishes in a season (21), the most consecutive wins (10), and the most consecutive pole positions (8, shared with Ayrton Senna). Verstappen is contracted to remain at Red Bull until at least the end of the 2030 season. Outside of Formula One, Verstappen runs the Verstappen Racing team, has competed in sports car racing events, and has also competed professionally in sim racing since 2015, winning several marquee iRacing events. Verstappen was listed in the 2024 issue of Time as one of the 100 most influential people globally, and was appointed an Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau in 2022.

Title: Davina Michelle
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Davina_Michelle
Summary: Michelle Davina Hoogendoorn (born 12 November 1995), known by her stage name Davina Michelle, is a Dutch singer and YouTuber. 
In 2018, her cover of the song "Duurt te lang" reached the number one spot on the Dutch Top 40, becoming the first woman in 11 years to do so with a Dutch-language song. "Hoe het danst", her 2019 collaboration with Marco Borsato and Armin van Buuren, also reached number one and became the first Dutch-language song to record over 100 million streams on Spotify.

Title: Yuki Tsunoda
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yuki_Tsunoda
Summary: Yuki Tsunoda (Japanese: 角田 裕毅, Hepburn: Tsunoda Yūki; pronounced [tsɯnoda jɯ̟ᵝːkʲi]; born 11 May 2000) is a Japanese racing driver who serves as a reserve driver in Formula One for Red Bull Racing and Racing Bulls. Tsunoda competed in Formula One full-time from 2021 to 2025, and served as an understudy in 2026.
Born in Sagamihara and raised in Tokyo, Tsunoda began competitive kart racing aged nine. Supported by Honda since 2016 through the Honda Formula Dream Project, Tsunoda graduated to junior formulae the same year. He won his first full championship at the JAF Japan F4 East Series in 2017, winning the F4 Japanese Championship the next season. In 2019, he progressed to FIA Formula 3 with Jenzer and became a member of the Red Bull Junior Team, before finishing third in his rookie season of FIA Formula 2 in 2020 with Carlin.
Tsunoda debuted in Formula One for AlphaTauri in 2021, using a Honda powertrain alongside Pierre Gasly; he finished a career-best fourth at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix that year. Tsunoda retained his seat at AlphaTauri in 2022 and 2023, partnering Nyck de Vries and Daniel Ricciardo in the latter. He remained at the team for the 2024 season as they re-branded to Racing Bulls, before his promotion to senior team Red Bull for the Japanese Grand Prix onwards in 2025. Replaced by Isack Hadjar for 2026, Tsunoda became the reserve driver for both teams and returned at the Dutch Grand Prix for Racing Bulls.

Title: Kimi Antonelli
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kimi_Antonelli
Summary: Andrea Kimi Antonelli (Italian: [anˈdrɛːa ˈkiːmi antoˈnɛlli]; born 25 August 2006) is an Italian racing driver who competes in Formula One for Mercedes. Antonelli has won eight Formula One Grands Prix since his debut in 2025.
Born and raised in Bologna, Antonelli is the son of sportscar racing driver Marco Antonelli. After a successful karting career—culminating in back-to-back victories at the senior European Championship in 2020 and 2021—Antonelli graduated to junior formulae. He won his first titles in Italian and ADAC F4 in 2022 with Prema; in addition to becoming a race-winner in Italian GT3, he also won a gold medal for Italy at the FIA Motorsport Games. He then claimed both the Formula Regional European and Middle East Championships before progressing to FIA Formula 2 in 2024, winning two races as he finished sixth.
A member of the Mercedes Junior Team since 2019, Antonelli signed for Mercedes in 2025, replacing Lewis Hamilton to partner George Russell and becoming the third-youngest driver in Formula One history at the Australian Grand Prix, aged 18; he achieved his maiden podium finish in his rookie season at the Canadian Grand Prix and became the youngest driver to set a fastest lap. Mercedes emerged as the lead contender in 2026, with Antonelli winning eight Grands Prix—including his home Grand Prix in Italy—while becoming the youngest-ever polesitter in China and the youngest World Drivers' Championship leader in Japan.
As of the 2026 Spanish Grand Prix, Antonelli has achieved eight race wins, six pole positions, ten fastest laps, and fifteen podiums in Formula One. In addition to the accolades above, he holds several Formula One records, including being the youngest driver to lead a lap and to score a grand chelem. Antonelli is contracted to remain at Mercedes until at least the end of the 2027 season.

Title: Sporting nationality
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sporting_nationality
Summary: Nationality in sporting events describes the affiliation of a participant in an international sporting event with one or more nations, typically as a member or potential member of a national team. The participant's sporting nationality is often the same as their citizenship at birth, but many sports have rules that allow participants to change nationalities, add a nationality, or represent a country to which they have limited ties through birth or ancestry.
A participant in a sporting event may have a sporting nationality without necessarily being a member of a national team.