Title: 2025
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025
Summary: 2025 (MMXXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar, the 2025th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 25th  year of the 3rd millennium and the 21st century, and the  6th   year of the 2020s decade.  
The year saw an escalation of major ongoing armed conflicts, including the Gaza war, marked by famine and a humanitarian crisis; the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which prompted peace negotiations involving Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump; and the Sudanese civil war.
Internal crises in Armenia, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, France, Georgia, Germany, Haiti, Libya, Pakistan, Peru, Somalia, and South Korea persisted into the year, with the latter culminating in the arrest and removal of President Yoon Suk Yeol from office. Furthermore, a diplomatic crisis between China and Japan broke out in November.
The year also witnessed a wave of protests predominantly led by Generation Z, with some movements—such as those in Nepal and Madagascar—resulting in the overthrow of targeted governments. Several brief conflicts arising from longstanding tensions emerged mid-year, including clashes between India and Pakistan in May, Iran and Israel in June, and Cambodia and Thailand in July. In the latter case, a leaked phone call involving Thai prime minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and Cambodian senate president Hun Sen resulted in the removal of the former from office.
In economics and business, the return of Donald Trump to the U.S. presidency ushered in a series of tariffs imposed by the United States on the rest of the world, significantly disrupting global trade and reinvigorating the China–United States trade war. The technology sector was also affected by the release of the DeepSeek chatbot, a Chinese large language model that competed with ChatGPT.
Aviation and aerospace experienced several accidents during the year, including a collision between two aircraft half a mile south of Washington National Airport in January, and the crash of Air India Flight 171, a Boeing 787 bound for Gatwick, in Ahmedabad, India, in June. The year also saw notable advances in space exploration, including the first crewed polar-orbit spaceflight and the first fully successful lunar landing by a private company.

Title: First lady
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_lady
Summary: First Lady or First Gentleman is a title used in some countries, especially presidential republics, most often for the spouse of the head of state. Occasionally another relative may be designated in the role, especially for unmarried or widowed officeholders. The term may also be used for the spouses of mayors, governors, et cetera.
In Anglophone countries, the term is primarily associated with the United States, however the title has also occasionally been used to refer to the spouse of a head of government in some commonwealth countries. The traditional duties and social function of the role of First Lady in many ways echo the role of a queen consort in countries with a monarchy.
Outside of the US, the role is most often found in Latin American countries.
The term First Lady has also seen figurative use to describe a person seen to be at the top of her profession or craft, and is used in various Christian denominations to refer to the wife of a Christian pastor.

Title: President of Argentina
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_Argentina
Summary: The president of Argentina, officially known as the president of the Argentine Nation, is both head of state and head of government of Argentina. Under the national constitution, the president is also the chief executive of the federal government and commander-in-chief of the armed forces.
Throughout Argentine history, the office of head of state has undergone many changes, both in its title as in its features and powers. The current president Javier Milei was sworn into office on 10 December 2023. He succeeded Alberto Fernández. 
The constitution of Argentina, along with several constitutional amendments, establishes the requirements, powers, and responsibilities of the president, the term of office and the method of election.

Title: List of spouses of heads of state
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_spouses_of_heads_of_state
Summary: The following is a list of spouses of current heads of state.

Title: Luís Montenegro
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lu%C3%ADs_Montenegro
Summary: Luís Filipe Montenegro Cardoso de Morais Esteves (born 16 February 1973) is a Portuguese politician and lawyer serving as the prime minister of Portugal since April 2024, currently leading the 25th Constitutional Government. Additionally, he has been president of the Social Democratic Party (PSD) since 2022.
Montenegro was a member of the Assembly of the Republic from Aveiro from 2002 to 2018, leading his party's parliamentary group between 2011 and 2017. After being defeated by Rui Rio in his party's 2020 leadership election, he won against Jorge Moreira da Silva in 2022 and became President of the PSD.
Under Montenegro's leadership, the PSD and CDS-PP formed the centre-right Democratic Alliance and won a plurality of seats in the 2024 Portuguese legislative election. He was appointed prime minister by President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, leading the XXIV Constitutional Government, a coalition minority government. His government fell in March 2025 after losing a vote of confidence amid an alleged conflict of interest affair, but the Democratic Alliance increased its plurality of seats in the subsequent snap election and formed the XXV Constitutional Government.