Title: Chief executive officer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chief_executive_officer
Summary: A chief executive officer (CEO), also known as a chief executive or managing director, is the top-ranking corporate officer charged with the management of a company or a nonprofit organization.
CEOs find roles in various organizations, including public and private corporations, nonprofit organizations, and even some government organizations (notably state-owned enterprises). The governor and CEO of a corporation or company typically report to the board of directors and are charged with maximizing the value of the business, which may include maximizing the profitability, market share, revenue, or another financial metric. In the nonprofit and government sector, CEOs typically aim at achieving outcomes related to the organization's mission, usually provided by legislation. CEOs are also frequently assigned the role of the main manager of the organization and the highest-ranking officer in the C-suite.

Title: History of Tesla, Inc.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Tesla,_Inc.
Summary: Tesla, Inc. is an electric vehicle manufacturer and clean energy company founded in San Carlos, California in 2003 by American entrepreneurs Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning. The company is named after Serbian-American inventor Nikola Tesla. Tesla is the world's leading electric vehicle manufacturer by market cap. As of 2023, Tesla's global vehicle sales were 1.77 million units annually, the 14th-highest total among auto manufacturers worldwide.

Title: Robyn Denholm
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robyn_Denholm
Summary: Robyn M. Denholm (; née Sammut; born 27 May 1963) is an Australian business executive and former accountant who is chair of Tesla, Inc. In November 2018, Denholm was chosen by Elon Musk to succeed him as chair of Tesla. She previously served as chief financial officer of computer hardware manufacturer Juniper Networks and Australian telecommunications company Telstra. Prior to her appointment, she was relatively unknown in the United States. As of 2025, she had the highest remuneration of any public company chair in the United States.

Title: Zach Kirkhorn
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zach_Kirkhorn
Summary: Zach Kirkhorn (born 1984) is an American business executive working in the automotive manufacturing industry. He served as the chief financial officer (CFO) of Tesla, Inc. from 2019 until he stepped down in August 2023.

Title: Vaibhav Taneja
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vaibhav_Taneja
Summary: Vaibhav Taneja is an Indian-American business executive and a chartered accountant who is currently serving as chief financial officer of Tesla, Inc.,  since 2023. He is also the company's chief accounting officer and one of the directors of Tesla India Motors and Energy Private Limited.