Title: PGA Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PGA_Championship
Summary: The PGA Championship (often referred to as the US PGA Championship or USPGA outside the United States) is an annual golf tournament conducted by the Professional Golfers' Association of America. The PGA is one of the four men's major golf championships (the others being The Open, the Masters, and the U.S. Open) and is the only one of the four that is exclusively for professional players.
It was formerly played in mid-August on the third weekend before Labor Day weekend, serving as the fourth and final men's major of the golf season. Beginning in 2019, the tournament is played in May on the weekend before Memorial Day, as the season's second major following the Masters in April. It is an official money event on the PGA Tour, European Tour, and Japan Golf Tour, with a purse of $11 million for the 100th edition in 2018.
In line with the other majors, winning the PGA gains privileges that improve career security. PGA champions are automatically invited to play in the other three majors and The Players Championship for the next five years, and are eligible for the PGA Championship for life. They also earn a five-year exemption on the PGA Tour and a seven-year membership on the DP World Tour.
The PGA Championship has been held at various venues. Some of the early sites are now quite obscure, but in recent years, the event has generally been played at a small group of celebrated courses.

Title: Tour Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tour_Championship
Summary: The Tour Championship (stylized as the TOUR Championship) is a golf tournament that is part of the PGA Tour. It has historically been one of the final events of the PGA Tour season; prior to 2007, its field consisted exclusively of the top 30 money leaders of the past PGA Tour season.
Starting in 2007, it was the final event of the four-tournament FedEx Cup Playoffs, with eligibility determined by FedEx Cup points accumulated throughout the season. From 2019 onward, the FedEx Cup was reduced to three events, and the Tour Championship is now held in late August rather than mid-September.
While originally followed by the PGA Tour Fall Series (for those competing for qualifying exemptions in the following season), a re-alignment of the PGA Tour's season schedule in 2013 made the Tour Championship the final event of the season.
From 1987 to 1996, several courses hosted the event. Beginning in 1997, the event alternated between Champions Golf Club in Houston and East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta; since 2004, East Lake has been the event's permanent home. The PGA Tour announced in June 2026 that the Tour Championship would take on a revised format from 2028, and would rotate venues annually with East Lake included in the rotation.

Title: Lowest rounds of golf
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lowest_rounds_of_golf
Summary: This article lists the lowest recorded rounds in golf. In professional competition, a round of 59 or less is regarded as a significant achievement. In men's major championships the lowest rounds are 62 by Branden Grace at the 2017 Open Championship, by Rickie Fowler and Xander Schauffele at the 2023 U.S. Open, by Xander Schauffele and Shane Lowry at the 2024 PGA Championship, and by Lucas Herbert, Sam Burns and Ryan Fox at the 2026 Open Championship. The lowest officially recorded round is 55 by Rhein Gibson in 2012. In women's major championships the lowest round is 60 by Ryu Hae-ran at the 2026 Evian Championship.

Title: 2024 PGA Tour
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_PGA_Tour
Summary: The 2024 PGA Tour was the 109th season of the PGA Tour, the main professional golf tour in the United States. It was also the 56th season since separating from the PGA of America, and the 18th edition of the FedEx Cup.

Title: 2024 PGA Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_PGA_Championship
Summary: The 2024 PGA Championship was the 106th edition of the PGA Championship and the second of the men's four major golf championships held in 2024. It was won by Xander Schauffele. The tournament was played from May 16–19 at Valhalla Golf Club in Louisville, Kentucky, United States.