Title: Koichi Wakata
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Koichi_Wakata
Summary: Koichi Wakata (若田 光一, Wakata Kōichi; born 1 August 1963) is a Japanese engineer and an astronaut working for Axiom Space. Wakata retired from JAXA in 2024 after a career in spaceflight spanning nearly two decades. He logged over 500 days in space across five missions: three aboard the Space Shuttle, one on the Soyuz, and one on the Crew Dragon. His missions included three long-duration stays on the International Space Station (ISS) and two short-duration flights—one to the ISS and one aboard the Space Shuttle. Notably, during Expedition 39, he became the first Japanese commander of the ISS.

Title: COEP Technological University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COEP_Technological_University
Summary: The College of Engineering Pune (COEP) Technological University is a unitary public university of the Government of Maharashtra, situated in Pune, Maharashtra, India. Established in 1854, it is the 3rd oldest engineering education institute in India, after the College of Engineering, Guindy (1794) and IIT Roorkee (1847). The students and alumni are colloquially referred to as COEPians.
On 23 June 2022, the Government of Maharashtra issued a notification regarding upgrading the college to an independent technological university. On 24 March 2022, both the houses of the state government passed the CoEP Technological University bill, which has conferred a unitary state university status on the institute.

Title: Somerville High School (Massachusetts)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Somerville_High_School_(Massachusetts)
Summary: Somerville High School is a public, four-year high school in Somerville, Massachusetts, United States. The school offers a wide selection of classes and vocational programs.
Classes offered include English, social studies, mathematics, science, world languages, music, performing arts, visual arts, TV and media production, and computer applications. There are vocational programs in health careers, childhood development, electrical work, carpentry, auto repair, advanced manufacturing, graphic communications, drafting, cosmetology, culinary arts, and metal fabrication.

Title: List of tallest people
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tallest_people
Summary: This is a list of the tallest people, verified by Guinness World Records or other reliable sources.
According to Guinness World Records, Robert Wadlow of the United States (1918–1940) was the tallest person in recorded history, measuring 272 cm (8 ft 11 in) at the time of his death.
There are reports about taller individuals but most claims are unverified or erroneous. Since antiquity, discoveries have been reported of gigantic human skeletons. Originally thought to belong to mythical giants, these bones were later identified as the exaggerated remains of prehistoric animals, usually whales or elephants. Regular reports in American newspapers in the 18th and 19th centuries of giant human skeletons may have inspired the case of the "petrified" Cardiff Giant, an archaeological hoax.

Title: VEX Robotics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VEX_Robotics
Summary: VEX Robotics is a robotics program for elementary through university students, and a subset of Innovation First International. The VEX Robotics competitions and programs were overseen by the Robotics Education & Competition Foundation (RECF) until May 2026, when VEX split from the foundation and created the Global Robotics & Science Foundation (GRSF) to oversee competition. VEX Robotics Competition was named the largest robotics competition in the world by Guinness World Records. 
There are four leagues of VEX Robotics competitions designed for different age groups and skill levels. The VEX V5 Robotics Competition (V5RC), the largest, is targeted toward middle and high school students. The VEX IQ Robotics Competition (VIQRC) is targeted toward elementary and middle school students. The VEX AI Robotics Competition is a 'spinoff' for high school and college-level students. The competition features no driver control periods, hence the name 'VEX AI'. VEX U is a robotics competition for university students. The game is similar to V5RC, but traditionally features a unique ruleset with more relaxed rules on the construction of their robots, and teams consisting of two robots.
In each of the four competitions, the VEX Robotics Game Design Committee creates a new challenge annually. Students must then design, build, program, and drive a robot to complete the challenge as best they can within the constraints. After competing in local and regional tournaments, qualifying teams are invited to attend the VEX Robotics World Championship.
The description and rules for the season's competition are released during the world championship of the previous season. From 2021 to 2025, the VEX Robotics World Championship was held in Dallas, Texas each year in mid-April or mid-May, depending on which league the teams are competing in. St. Louis, Missouri hosted the event in 2026 and is scheduled to hold the RECF STEM World Championship in 2027. VEX Robotics and the GRSF have not confirmed which city will host the event for the 2027 VEX Robotics World Championship.