Title: Yadier Molina
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yadier_Molina
Summary: Yadier Benjamín Molina (Spanish pronunciation: [ɟʝaˈðjeɾ moˈlina]; born July 13, 1982) is a Puerto Rican professional baseball manager, adviser, and former catcher who is the manager of Navegantes del Magallanes of the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League (LVBP) and a special assistant to the president of baseball operations for the St. Louis Cardinals of Major League Baseball (MLB). He played his entire 19-year MLB career with the St. Louis Cardinals from 2004 to 2022. Widely considered one of the greatest defensive catchers of all time for his blocking ability and caught-stealing percentage, Molina won nine Rawlings Gold Gloves and six Fielding Bible Awards. A two-time World Series champion, he played for Cardinals teams that made 12 playoff appearances and won four National League pennants. Molina also played for the Puerto Rican national team in four World Baseball Classic (WBC) tournaments, winning two silver medals.
When he retired after the 2022 season, Molina ranked first all-time among catchers in putouts and second all-time among catchers with 130 Defensive Runs Saved (DRS); among active players, he ranked first with 845 assists, 40.21% of runners caught stealing, and 55 pickoffs. Along with pitcher Adam Wainwright, Molina holds the records for most games started and won as a battery. As a hitter, Molina accrued more than 2,100 hits, 150 home runs, and 1,000 runs batted in (RBIs); he batted over .300 in five seasons. Other distinctions include selection to ten MLB All-Star Games, four Platinum Glove Awards, and one Silver Slugger Award. He was a two-time selection to the All-WBC Tournament Team and was a member of the 2018 MLB Japan All-Star Series.
The product of a baseball family, Molina was born in Bayamon, Puerto Rico. His father was an amateur second baseman and the all-time hits leader in Puerto Rican baseball, and his two older brothers, Bengie and José, also developed into standout defensive catchers with lengthy MLB careers. The Cardinals' fourth-round selection in the 2000 MLB draft, Molina entered the major leagues in the 2004 season and quickly showed one of the strongest and most accurate arms in the game. Over his career, he earned a reputation as a team leader, eventually formulating pregame plans to handle opposing hitters, including pitching strategies and fielder positioning.
Molina appeared on five NL Most Valuable Player Award (MVP) ballots, including finishing fourth in 2012 and third in 2013. When Hurricane Maria ravaged the island of Puerto Rico in September 2017, Molina began relief efforts for victims of the catastrophe, consequently receiving the Roberto Clemente Award in 2018.

Title: List of people from Jacksonville, Florida
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_people_from_Jacksonville,_Florida
Summary: The city of Jacksonville, Florida, has been home to many notable people, groups, and organizations.
Those listed may have been born or raised in Jacksonville, been influenced by the city while living, working or retiring there, or lived in the metropolitan area.

Title: Craig Breslow
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Craig_Breslow
Summary: Craig Andrew Breslow (; born August 8, 1980) is an American baseball executive and former professional baseball pitcher. He is currently the Chief Baseball Officer of the Boston Red Sox. Breslow pitched for 12 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the San Diego Padres, Boston Red Sox, Cleveland Indians, Minnesota Twins, Oakland Athletics, Arizona Diamondbacks, and Miami Marlins. He also pitched for Team Israel at the 2017 World Baseball Classic.
Breslow was selected in the 26th round of the 2002 MLB draft by the Milwaukee Brewers, and debuted in MLB with the Padres in 2005. With the Red Sox, he won the World Series in 2013. He made his final MLB appearance during the 2017 season. As of the end of the 2018 season, he ranked fourth among all active left-handed MLB pitchers in career appearances.
As a senior at Yale University, where he majored in molecular biophysics and biochemistry, Breslow led the Ivy League with a 2.56 earned run average. During his MLB career, he was called the "smartest man in baseball" by reporters at the Minneapolis Star Tribune and The Wall Street Journal. In 2010, the Sporting News named him the smartest athlete on their top 20 list.

Title: Tampa Bay Rays
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tampa_Bay_Rays
Summary: The Tampa Bay Rays are an American professional baseball team based in the Tampa Bay area. The Rays compete in Major League Baseball (MLB) as a member club of the American League (AL) East Division. They are one of two major league clubs based in Florida, alongside the National League (NL)’s Miami Marlins. The team plays its home games at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida.
Following nearly three decades of unsuccessfully trying to gain an expansion franchise or enticing existing teams to relocate to the Tampa Bay area, an ownership group led by Vince Naimoli was approved on March 9, 1995. The team began play as the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in the 1998 Major League Baseball season.
The team's first decade of play was marked by futility; they finished in last place in the AL East in all but the 2004 season, when they finished second to last. Following the 2007 season, Stuart Sternberg, who had purchased controlling interest in the team from Vince Naimoli two years earlier, changed the team's name from "Devil Rays" to "Rays", now meaning both manta rays and rays of sunshine; a manta ray logo appears on the uniform sleeves while a sunburst appears on the uniform front. The 2008 season saw the Rays post their first winning season, their first AL East championship, and their first American League pennant (defeating the rival Boston Red Sox in the ALCS), though they lost to the Philadelphia Phillies in that year's World Series. Since then, the Rays been much more more successful, becoming AL East champions three more times and clinching the American League's wild card five more times, leading to another American League pennant again in 2020 before losing to the Los Angeles Dodgers in that year's World Series. The Rays are one of five MLB teams to not have a World Series title yet, the others being the San Diego Padres, Colorado Rockies, Milwaukee Brewers, and Seattle Mariners.
The Tampa Bay Rays' chief rivals are the Boston Red Sox and the New York Yankees, which also play in the AL East. Regarding the former, there have been several notable on-field incidents. The Rays also have an in-state interleague rivalry with the Miami Marlins (originally the Florida Marlins).
Through 2025, the Rays' all-time record is 2,168–2,264 (.489).

Title: 2025 Major League Baseball season
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_Major_League_Baseball_season
Summary: The 2025 Major League Baseball season began on March 18 (with a special two-game Tokyo Series), while the regular season ended on September 28. The postseason began on September 30. The World Series then began on October 24 and concluded on November 1 with the Los Angeles Dodgers defeating the Toronto Blue Jays in seven games to win their ninth title in franchise history and their eighth since moving to Los Angeles in 1958.
The 95th All-Star Game was played on July 15 at Truist Park in Cumberland, Georgia, the home of the Atlanta Braves. The National League won the "swing-off" tiebreaker after a 6–6 tie after nine innings.
The Athletics relocated from Oakland to West Sacramento, California, for at least three seasons before their planned relocation to the Las Vegas metropolitan area. Beginning with this season, the team is currently branded as the Athletics, with no city name attached.
This was the first season since 2005 in which there was not a no-hitter pitched.
For the first time in Major League history, a season began and concluded beyond the borders of the United States. The season opened in Tokyo, Japan, and concluded in Toronto, Canada. This was also the first time since 1964 that no team played in a fixed dome stadium, due to the Tampa Bay Rays temporarily playing at the open-air George M. Steinbrenner Field that season after damage to their usual home stadium, Tropicana Field, due to Hurricane Milton, as every indoor stadium that was used that season had a retractable roof.