Title: Tanzania
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tanzania
Summary: Tanzania, officially the United Republic of Tanzania, is a country in East Africa within the African Great Lakes region. It is bordered by Uganda to the northwest, Kenya to the northeast, the Indian Ocean to the east, Mozambique and Malawi to the south, Zambia to the southwest, and Rwanda, Burundi, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the west. According to a 2024 estimate, Tanzania has a population of around 67.5 million, making it the most populous African country located entirely south of the equator.
Many important hominid fossils have been found in Tanzania. In the Stone and Bronze Age, prehistoric migrations into Tanzania included Southern Cushitic speakers similar to modern day Iraqw people, who moved south from present-day Ethiopia; Eastern Cushitic people who moved into Tanzania from north of Lake Turkana about 2,000 and 4,000 years ago; and the Southern Nilotes, including the Datoog, who originated from the present-day South Sudan–Ethiopia border region between 2,900 and 2,400 years ago. These movements took place at about the same time as the settlement of the Mashariki Bantu from West Africa in the Lake Victoria and Lake Tanganyika areas. In the late 19th century, the mainland came under German rule as German East Africa.  This was followed by British rule after World War I when it was governed as Tanganyika, with the Zanzibar Archipelago remaining a separate colonial jurisdiction. Following their gaining respective independence in 1961 and 1963, the two entities merged in 1964 to form the United Republic of Tanzania.
Tanganyika joined the British Commonwealth, and Tanzania remains a Commonwealth country as a unified republic. Today, the country is a presidential constitutional republic with the federal capital located in Government City (Dodoma); the former capital, Dar es Salaam, retains most government offices and is the country's largest city, principal port, and leading commercial centre. For decades, Tanzania has been ruled by the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) as a de facto one-party state.
Tanzania's population comprises about 120 ethnic, linguistic, and religious groups. Christianity is the largest religion in Tanzania, with substantial Muslim and Animist minorities. Over 100 languages are spoken in Tanzania, making it the most linguistically diverse country in East Africa. The country does not have a de jure official language, although the national language is Swahili. English is used in foreign trade, in diplomacy, in higher courts, and as a medium of instruction in secondary and higher education. Arabic is widely spoken in Zanzibar, reflecting its history as a trading center dominated by Arabs.
Tanzania is mountainous and densely forested in the north-east, where Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest mountain in Africa and the highest single free-standing mountain above sea level in the world, is located. Three of the African Great Lakes are partly within Tanzania. To the north and west lie Lake Victoria, Africa's largest lake, and Lake Tanganyika, the continent's deepest lake, known for its unique species of fish. To the south lies Lake Malawi. The eastern shore is hot and humid, with the Zanzibar Archipelago just offshore. The Menai Bay Conservation Area is Zanzibar's largest marine protected area. The Kalambo Falls, located on the Kalambo River at the Zambian border, is the second-highest uninterrupted waterfall in Africa. Tanzania is one of the most visited tourist destinations for safaris. The country is an official member of the United Nations, Group of 77, African Union, East African Community, and the Non-Aligned Movement.

Title: Politics of Tanzania
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politics_of_Tanzania
Summary: The politics of Tanzania takes place in the framework of a unitary presidential democratic republic whereby the President of Tanzania is both head of state and head of government within a nominally multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. The party system is dominated by the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (Revolutionary State Party). The judiciary is de jure independent although it has been influenced by the ruling party which has used it to persecute political opponents.
Since 2014, the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (Revolutionary State Party), under the presidencies of John Magufuli and Samia Suluhu Hassan overseen democratic backsliding and the development of a single-party state, as the party has repressed the opposition and prevented free and fair elections from taking place. The Economist Intelligence Unit rated Tanzania a "hybrid regime" in 2024.

Title: Dominant-party system
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominant-party_system
Summary: A dominant-party system, or a one-party dominant system, is a political occurrence in which a single political party continuously dominates election results, overrunning opposition groups or parties. Any ruling party staying in power for more than one consecutive term may be considered a dominant party (also referred to as a predominant or hegemonic party). Some dominant parties were called the natural governing party, given their length of time in power.
Dominant parties, and their domination of a state, develop out of one-sided electoral and party constellations within a multi-party system (particularly under presidential systems of governance), and as such differ from states under a one-party system, which are intricately organized around a specific party. Sometimes the term "de facto one-party state" is used to describe dominant-party systems which, unlike a one-party system, allows (at least nominally) democratic multiparty elections, but the existing practices or balance of political power effectively prevent the opposition from winning power, thus resembling a one-party state. Dominant-party systems differ from the political dynamics of other dominant multi-party constellations such as consociationalism, grand coalitions and two-party systems, which are characterized and sustained by narrow or balanced competition and cooperation.
In political literature, more than 130 dominant party systems between 1950 and 2017 were included in a list by A. A. Ostroverkhov. For example, in the post-Soviet states, researchers classify parties such as United Russia and Amanat (Kazakhstan) as dominant parties on the basis that these parties have long held the majority of seats in parliament (although they do not directly form the government or appoint officials to government positions). In Russian political science literature, such associations are often called "parties of power".
It is believed that a system with a dominant party can be either authoritarian or democratic. However, since there is no consensus in the global political science community on a set of mandatory features of democracy (for example, there is a point of view according to which the absence of alternation of power is, in principle, incompatible with democratic norms), it is difficult to separate the two types of one-party dominance.

Title: 2024 Indonesian general election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Indonesian_general_election
Summary: General elections were held in Indonesia on 14 February 2024 to elect the president, vice president, and People's Consultative Assembly (MPR), which consists of the House of Representatives (DPR), the Regional Representative Council (DPD), and members of local legislative bodies (DPRD) at the provincial and city or regency levels. The newly elected members of the MPR were sworn in on 1 October 2024, while the elected president and vice president was sworn in on 20 October 2024. Incumbent President Joko Widodo was ineligible to run for a third term due to limitations established by the Indonesian constitution. 
The election had over 204 million eligible voters voting in over 800,000 polling stations across the country on the same date. Three presidential candidates contested the election: defense minister and retired Army General Prabowo Subianto, running with the Mayor of Surakarta Gibran Rakabuming Raka, former Governor of Jakarta Anies Baswedan, running with House Deputy Speaker Muhaimin Iskandar, and former Governor of Central Java Ganjar Pranowo running with Political, Legal, and Security Coordinating Minister Mahfud MD. The legislative election saw 24 contesting parties – including six exclusively in Aceh – field over 250,000 candidates contesting over 20,000 seats.
In the presidential elections, Prabowo received a majority of the vote in the first round, requiring no runoffs. Prabowo's 96.2 million votes were the highest received by any candidate in a democratic election in Indonesia, surpassing Joko Widodo's 85.6 million votes won in the 2019 election. In the legislative elections, eight parties qualified for the national legislature, with the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P) remaining the largest party in the House of Representatives despite losing seats. Golkar gained the most seats, while the United Development Party (PPP) lost national parliamentary representation for the first time in its history as it fell short of the 4% parliamentary threshold.
The 2024 election marked the first time since the beginning of the Reform era in 1998 that a single political party secured the largest number of seats in the House of Representatives for three consecutive general elections. The Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P) accomplished this milestone.  
It was also the first time since 2004 that the political party of the elected president did not win the most seats in the legislature. In this election, the Great Indonesia Movement Party (Gerindra), led by President-elect Prabowo Subianto, placed third in terms of parliamentary seats, although it continues to enjoy strong coalition support. 
The 2024 legislative election also marked the fourth consecutive increase in parliamentary seats for Gerindra since its first participation in 2009. Similarly, the National Democratic Party (NasDem) saw its third consecutive gain in seats since it first contested a legislative election in 2014.
This election is the fifth in a row where the candidate who won in the 12 provinces below, Bangka Belitung Islands, Central Java, North Sumatra, Central Kalimantan, North Sulawesi, East Java, Yogyakarta, Lampung, Papua, Riau Islands, Jakarta, and Central Sulawesi, also won the general election, strengthening their status as bellwether provinces.

Title: 2024 Indonesian presidential election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Indonesian_presidential_election
Summary: Presidential elections were held in Indonesia on 14 February 2024 with defence minister and former general Prabowo Subianto contesting the elections against the former governor of Jakarta, Anies Baswedan and the former governor of Central Java, Ganjar Pranowo; incumbent president Joko Widodo was constitutionally barred from seeking a third term in office.
On 20 March, the General Elections Commission (KPU) announced Prabowo's victory, having received over 96 million votes. Prabowo and his vice-presidential candidate, Gibran Rakabuming, were sworn in on 20 October 2024.
The presidential election was held together with the legislative election for members of the House of Representatives (DPR), the Senate (DPD), provincial legislative councils (DPRD Provinsi), and regency or municipal legislative councils (DPRD Kabupaten or DPRD Kota) throughout Indonesia.
The elevation of Prabowo to the presidency prompted concerns from scholars and observers about democratic backsliding in Indonesia.