Title: Princess Beatrice
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princess_Beatrice
Summary: Princess Beatrice, Mrs Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi (Beatrice Elizabeth Mary; born 8 August 1988), is a member of the British royal family. She is the elder daughter of Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor and Sarah Ferguson, and a niece of King Charles III. Born fifth in the line of succession to the British throne, she is ninth as of 2026.
Beatrice was educated at St George's School, Ascot, before reading history at Goldsmiths, University of London, where she graduated with a BA degree. She has held roles at the Foreign Office and Sony Pictures, and currently serves as Vice-President of Strategic Partnerships at the software company Afiniti. She supports several charitable organisations, including the Teenage Cancer Trust and Outward Bound. 
In 2020, Beatrice married Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi, an English-born property developer with descent from Italian nobility. They have two daughters.

Title: Peter Overton
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Overton
Summary: Peter John Overton,  (born 5 April 1966) is an Australian television journalist and news presenter.
He is currently presenter on Nine News Sydney. Overton also presently serves as a specialist reserve public affairs officer in the Royal Australian Air Force, holding the rank of Wing commander.

Title: Alice Roberts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Roberts
Summary: Alice May Roberts  (born 19 May 1973) is a British academic, anatomist, archaeologist, TV presenter and author. Since 2012 she has been professor of Public Engagement in Science at the University of Birmingham. She was president of the charity Humanists UK from January 2019 to May 2022, and is now a vice-president of the organisation.

Title: Richie Myler
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richie_Myler
Summary: Richard David Myler (born 21 May 1990) is a retired rugby league footballer, who is currently the director of rugby for Hull FC in the Super League. He is a member of the Ireland squad for the delayed 2021 Rugby League World Cup, having declared for Ireland in 2022. Previously he has represented England and the England Knights at international level. 
He has played for the Widnes Vikings in the Championship, and the Salford City Reds  in the Championship and the Super League. Myler has also played for the Warrington Wolves and the Catalans Dragons in the Super League.

Title: Jeff Leiper
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeff_Leiper
Summary: Jeffrey Leiper (born March 8, 1970) is the current Ottawa city councillor for Kitchissippi Ward. He was first elected in the 2014 Ottawa municipal election, defeating the incumbent Katherine Hobbs.