Title: Caldwell, New Jersey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caldwell,_New_Jersey
Summary: Caldwell is a borough located in northwestern Essex County, in the U.S. state of New Jersey, about 16 miles (26 km) west of New York City and 6 miles (9.7 km) north-west of Newark, the state's most populous city. As of the 2020 United States census, the borough's population was 9,027, an increase of 1,205 (+15.4%) from the 2010 census count of 7,822, which in turn reflected an increase of 238 (+3.1%) from the 7,584 counted in the 2000 census.
Caldwell was incorporated as a borough by an act of the New Jersey Legislature on February 10, 1892, from portions of Caldwell Township (now Fairfield Township), based on the results of a referendum held on the previous day. In 1981, the borough's name was changed to the "Township of the Borough of Caldwell", as one of seven Essex County municipalities to pass a referendum to become a township, joining four municipalities that had already made the change, of what would ultimately be more than a dozen Essex County municipalities to reclassify themselves as townships in order take advantage of federal revenue sharing policies that allocated townships a greater share of government aid to municipalities on a per capita basis. Effective January 26, 1995, it again became a borough.
Grover Cleveland, the 22nd and 24th President of the United States and the first president to serve two nonconsecutive terms, was born in Caldwell on March 18, 1837. His father, the Rev. Richard Falley Cleveland, was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church. The Grover Cleveland birthplace—the church's former manse—is now a museum and is open to the public.
Though today the Caldwell area is considered to be a suburb of both Newark and New York City, the area originally developed as its own individual, self-contained community and economy rather than as urban sprawl from a larger city. When it was formed, miles of woods separated downtown Caldwell from Newark or any of its developing suburbs.
New Jersey Monthly magazine ranked Caldwell as its third-best place to live in its 2010 rankings of the "Best Places To Live" in New Jersey.

Title: Essex Fells, New Jersey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essex_Fells,_New_Jersey
Summary: Essex Fells is a borough in Essex County, in the U.S. state of New Jersey. As of the 2020 United States census, the borough's population was 2,244, an increase of 131 (+6.2%) from the 2010 census count of 2,113, which in turn had reflected a decline of 49 (−2.3%) from the 2,162 counted in the 2000 census.
Essex Fells was incorporated as a borough by an act of the New Jersey Legislature on March 31, 1902, from portions of Caldwell Township (now Fairfield Township). The community's name was derived by taking "Essex" from the name of the county and adding "Fells" from the name of John F. Fell which also means hill or down.
New Jersey Family magazine ranked Essex Fells as the best town for families in its 2016 rankings of "New Jersey's Best Towns for Families". New Jersey Monthly magazine ranked Essex Fells as its 10th best place to live in its 2008 rankings of the "Best Places To Live" in New Jersey. Niche.com ranked Essex Fells as the seventh best place to live in its 2019 rankings of the "Best Places to Live" in New Jersey.
In 2010, Forbes.com listed Essex Fells as 182nd in its listing of "America's Most Expensive ZIP Codes", with a median home price of $1,140,885. The borough's median household income, as of the 2020 United States census, was $247,000.

Title: Gate of Heaven Cemetery (Hawthorne, New York)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gate_of_Heaven_Cemetery_(Hawthorne,_New_York)
Summary: Gate of Heaven Cemetery, approximately 25 miles (40 km) north of New York City, was established in 1917 at 10 West Stevens Avenue in Hawthorne, Westchester County, New York, as a Catholic burial site. Several famous individuals are buried here including actors, athletes and politicians. Among its residents is baseball player Babe Ruth, whose grave has an epitaph by Cardinal Francis Spellman and is almost always adorned by many baseballs, bats and caps. Adjacent to the Garden Mausoleum is the Metro-North Railroad's Harlem Division Mount Pleasant station. One train each way stops here on weekdays, and three trains each way stop here on weekends.

Title: Herb Scharfman
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herb_Scharfman
Summary: Herbert "Herb" Scharfman (August 24, 1911 – February 21, 1998) was an American sports photographer notable for several famous photographs of American sports people published by Sports Illustrated and other publications.

Scharfman, a native of Chicago, began his career in New York as a stringer for International News Photos. His picture of Rocky Marciano's knockout punch in a 1952 bout against Jersey Joe Walcott is widely considered to be one of the most iconic photographs in the history of sports. He later chronicled Roger Maris during his pursuit of Babe Ruth's single-season home run record in 1961. Scharfman's photo of that record breaking moment is one of baseball's most famous photos.

After International News Photo went out of business, Scharfman joined the staff of Sports Illustrated. Although his photographs graced the magazine's cover fifteen times in a ten-year span, he is best known for a photo in which he appears—Neil Leifer's shot of Muhammad Ali standing over a fallen Sonny Liston in their 1964 rematch. Scharfman was directly across the ring from Leifer, appearing between the legs of Ali in the iconic image. Lefier later said, "Herbie Scharfman was one of the greats, but on that night, he was in the wrong seat."
He died in Scottsdale, Arizona, aged 86, and was survived by his wife Hannah, daughters Loretta and Rebecca, as well as three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.

Title: List of most valuable celebrity memorabilia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_valuable_celebrity_memorabilia
Summary: The following is a list of most valuable celebrity memorabilia (or most expensive celebrity items auctioned), consisting of individual items sold with an auction price of US$2 million or more and events with total sales of US$20 million or more. Some figures may or may not include buyer's premium, causing some reports to vary by media.
It includes personal belongings of public figures such as music artists, actors, athletes, models and socialites, and encompassess any collectible items sold at auction, from jewelry, musical instruments to manuscripts, cars and costumes worn in events or projects. The list excludes film props such as Robby the Robot and Batmobile, sports cards, auctioned musical instruments by manufacturers, or expensive things bought by, and, collectibles purchases made by a celebrity.
As of 2025, the Ruby slippers worn by Judy Garland in The Wizard of Oz as Dorothy Gale remain the most expensive item of entertainment memorabilia ever sold, as well as the most expensive film memorabilia, at over $28 million. Babe Ruth's jersey for the 1932 World Series fetched $24.1 million in 2024, becoming the most valued sports collectible item.