Title: Noma (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noma_(restaurant)
Summary: Noma () is a restaurant and food innovation lab founded by chef René Redzepi and Claus Meyer in Copenhagen, Denmark. The name is a syllabic abbreviation of the two Danish words "nordisk" (Nordic) and "mad" (food). Opened in 2003, the restaurant is known for its focus on foraging, invention and interpretation of New Nordic Cuisine. In 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, and 2021 it was ranked as the Best Restaurant in the World by Restaurant magazine. 
In January 2023, Redzepi announced that Noma would transition away from traditional restaurant service, with its final regular dinner service taking place in Kyoto, Japan, in December 2024. Noma continues to operate as a food lab and through periodic pop-up residencies.

Title: Sorn (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sorn_(restaurant)
Summary: Sorn (Thai: ศรณ์) is a restaurant in Bangkok specializing in Southern Thai cuisine.

Title: Maido (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maido_(restaurant)
Summary: Maido  is a fusion restaurant opened in October 2009 in Miraflores, Lima, Peru. It is owned and headed by chef Mitsuharu "Micha" Tsumura. Maido's dishes are rooted in Nikkei cuisine, which blends Peruvian and Japanese cuisines. Maido was ranked first in the World's 50 Best Restaurants in 2025.

Title: Alchemist (restaurant)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alchemist_(restaurant)
Summary: Alchemist is a two Michelin-star restaurant founded and run by chef Rasmus Munk, in Copenhagen, Denmark. The restaurant is placed in the top 10 of The World's 50 Best Restaurants, ranking 8th in 2024 and 5th in 2025. In 2024, it was described by The New Yorker as "one of the most sought-after reservations in the fine-dining world". According to Munk, the restaurant has "a holistic approach extending beyond the plate to create thought-provoking, aesthetical, emotional and gastrophysical meal experiences."

Title: CNN Grill
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNN_Grill
Summary: The CNN Grill is a  pop-up restaurant and broadcasting studio that the American cable news channel CNN has operated near the venues of major party United States presidential nominating conventions, as well as at the 2011 and 2012 iterations of the South by Southwest festival. The concept originated as the "CNN Diner" during the 2004 Republican convention. Since 2008, CNN Grills have been located at each major party presidential nominating convention (except for the COVID-19 pandemic impacted conventions of the 2020 election).