Title: The Playroom (2013 video game)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Playroom_(2013_video_game)
Summary: The Playroom is a video game developed by Japan Studio's Team Asobi division and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It is a collection of augmented reality mini-games meant to demonstrate the use of the PlayStation Camera and the DualShock 4 controller and comes preloaded with all PlayStation 4 consoles. The PlayStation Camera accessory is required to play The Playroom. If a camera is not present, a trailer for The Playroom will be displayed instead of the full game. Firesprite, a studio founded by former employees of Studio Liverpool, worked on the visuals of The Playroom. Downloadable content is free.
Despite not being mentioned on the PlayStation 5 incompatibility list, The Playroom is not playable on the PS5, therefore being a PlayStation 4 exclusive.

Title: Team Asobi
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Team_Asobi
Summary: Team Asobi is a Japanese video game developer based in Tokyo. A first-party studio for Sony Interactive Entertainment, Team Asobi was originally formed in 2012 as part of Japan Studio, but formally spun off into an independent studio within Sony's PlayStation Studios in April 2021. It is best known for the Astro Bot series.

Title: Astro Bot
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astro_Bot
Summary: Astro Bot is a 2024 platform game developed by Team Asobi and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 5 in celebration of PlayStation's 30th anniversary. It is the fifth game in the Astro Bot series, following Astro's Playroom (2020), and Team Asobi's first game since its separation from Japan Studio. 
As Astro, the player embarks on a quest to save lost robots, retrieve parts for the PlayStation 5 mothership, and defeat the alien Space Bully Nebulax. Much like the previous title Astro's Playroom, Astro Bot uses DualSense controller features including adaptive triggers and haptic feedback.
Astro Bot became the highest-rated game of 2024 on Metacritic. Critics praised the gameplay, level design, and content, with some comparing the game to Nintendo franchises, particularly the Super Mario series. Astro Bot won multiple awards including Game of the Year at the Game Awards 2024, the 21st British Academy Games Awards, and the 28th Annual D.I.C.E. Awards.

Title: The Game Awards 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Game_Awards_2024
Summary: The Game Awards 2024 was an award show to honor the best video games of 2024. It was the eleventh show hosted by Geoff Keighley, creator and producer of the Game Awards, and held with a live audience at the Peacock Theater in Los Angeles on December 12, 2024, and live streamed across online platforms globally. It featured musical performances from d4vd, Royal & the Serpent, Snoop Dogg, and Twenty One Pilots, and presentations from celebrity guests including Harrison Ford, Hideo Kojima, and Aaron Paul.
Astro Bot and Final Fantasy VII Rebirth led the nominees with seven each, and the former led the show with four wins, including Game of the Year. The inaugural Game Changer award honored Amir Satvat for helping workers in the industry find jobs amid mass layoffs. Several new games were announced, including Elden Ring Nightreign, Intergalactic: The Heretic Prophet, and The Witcher IV. The show was viewed by over 154 million streams, the most in its history to date. Journalists praised the game announcements, developer speeches, and deserving winners, though the eligibility of downloadable content led to mixed responses.

Title: 21st British Academy Games Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/21st_British_Academy_Games_Awards
Summary: The 21st British Academy Video Game Awards were hosted by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts on 8 April 2025 to honour the best video games of 2024. Held at the Queen Elizabeth Hall in London, the ceremony was hosted by comedian Phil Wang for the second time following his debut at the previous ceremony. Nominations were announced on 4 March 2025, with Ninja Theory's psychological action-adventure game Senua's Saga: Hellblade II earning a leading eleven nominations, followed by platformer Astro Bot and horror game Still Wakes the Deep, both with eight nominations respectively. Astro Bot received the most awards on the night, winning five, followed by Still Wakes the Deep with three wins, and multiplayer shooter game Helldivers 2 with two wins. The BAFTA Fellowship was presented to Japanese composer Yoko Shimomura.
The ceremony was opened with a performance by Peredur ap Gwynedd, and also featured the live debut of "I Can't Hear It Now" from the Arcane League of Legends: Season 2 soundtrack performed by Freya Ridings.