Title: UEFA European Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_European_Championship
Summary: %5B%5BWikipedia%3ATemplates+for+discussion%2FLog%2F2025+December+5%23Template%3ASeason+sidebar%5D%5D{{{CRITERION}}}
The UEFA European Football Championship, less formally the European Championship and informally the Euro or Euros, is the primary association football tournament organised by UEFA. The competition is contested by members' senior men's national teams, determining the continental champion of Europe. It is the second-most watched football tournament in the world after the FIFA World Cup. It was originally called the European Nations' Cup before changing to its current name in 1968. 
The competition has generally been held every four years, scheduled to be in the even-numbered year between FIFA World Cup tournaments. It is staggered on an alternating two-year cycle with the UEFA Nations League. Before entering the tournament, all teams other than the host nations (which qualify automatically) compete in a qualifying process. From the 2020 edition onwards, the winner plays the Copa América champion in the Finalissima.
The seventeen European Championship tournaments have been won by ten national teams: Spain has won four titles; Germany has won three; Italy and France have won two titles; and the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, the Netherlands, Denmark, Greece, and Portugal have won one title each. To date, Spain is the only team to have won consecutive titles, doing so in 2008 and 2012.

Title: List of UEFA European Championship finals
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_UEFA_European_Championship_finals
Summary: %5B%5BWikipedia%3ATemplates+for+discussion%2FLog%2F2025+December+5%23Template%3ASeason+sidebar%5D%5D{{{CRITERION}}}
The UEFA European Championship is an association football competition established in 1960. It is contested by the men's national teams of the members of the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA), the sport's European governing body, and takes place every four years.
The European Championship final is the last match of the competition, and the result determines which country's team is declared European champion. It is a one-off match decided in regulation time. In the event of a draw, extra time is played. If scores are then still level, a penalty shoot-out determines the winner, as per the rules since 1976; prior to that, finals still tied after extra time would be replayed, as was the case with the 1968 final. During extra time, the golden goal rule (by which the first team to score won the match) applied in 1996 and 2000, and the silver goal rule (by which a team could win the match by winning the first half of extra time) would have applied in 2004 but was not put in practice. The winners are awarded a replica of the trophy (the original remains with UEFA), while the losing finalists (and semi-finalists) are presented with a plaque. Gold and silver medals are awarded to the players of the winning and losing finalists respectively.
Spain is the most successful team in the history of the tournament with four titles, followed by Germany with three wins. France and Italy have won the competition twice, while six other teams, the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, the Netherlands, Denmark, Greece, and Portugal, have triumphed once. Yugoslavia, Belgium and England have qualified for the final without success.
The winners of the first ever final, held in Paris in 1960, were the Soviet Union, who defeated Yugoslavia 2–1 after extra time, while in the latest one, hosted in Berlin in 2024, Spain defeated England 2–1.

Title: UEFA Euro 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Euro_2024
Summary: The 2024 UEFA European Football Championship, commonly referred to as UEFA Euro 2024 or simply Euro 2024, was the 17th UEFA European Championship, the quadrennial international football championship organised by UEFA for the European men's national teams of their member associations. Germany hosted the tournament, which took place from 14 June to 14 July 2024. The tournament involved 24 teams. 
It was the third time that European Championship matches were played on German territory and the second time in reunified Germany, as West Germany hosted the 1988 tournament, and four matches of the multi-national Euro 2020 were played in Munich. It was the first time the competition was held in what was formerly East Germany, with Leipzig as a host city, as well as the first major tournament since the 2006 FIFA World Cup that Germany served as a solo host nation. The tournament returned to its usual four-year cycle after the 2020 edition was postponed to 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Georgia made their tournament debut. Italy were the defending champion, having won the 2020 final against England on penalties, but failed to defend the title after being eliminated by Switzerland in the round of 16. Host nation Germany were eliminated by Spain in the quarter-finals; Spain went on to win the tournament for a record fourth time after defeating England 2–1 in the final.

Title: UEFA Conference League
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Conference_League
Summary: The UEFA Conference League (UECL), known simply as the Conference League, is an annual football competition organised since 2021 by the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) for eligible European clubs. It is the third-tier competition of European club football, ranking below the second-tier UEFA Europa League, and the first-tier UEFA Champions League.
The competition was intended as the lowest level of the UEFA Europa League and named the UEFA Europa League 2 as a working title. It was then renamed to the UEFA Europa Conference League, before its current name was adopted. Teams from lower-ranked UEFA member associations primarily contest the competition. From the 2024–25 season, the competition was rebranded to the UEFA Conference League, and the group stage was replaced with an expanded league phase of 36 teams. No teams qualify directly for the league phase; instead, the teams eliminated in the Europa League play-off round qualify, with the rest coming from the Conference League qualifying and play-off rounds. 
The winner of the competition qualifies for the following season's UEFA Europa League league phase, unless qualified for the Champions League via their domestic league position. In that case, the Conference League champion has the right to choose the competition. English clubs have the most wins, with three, followed by Italy and Greece with one each. Roma were the inaugural winners of the competition, having beaten Feyenoord 1–0 in the 2022 final. The current title holders are Crystal Palace, who defeated Rayo Vallecano 1–0 in the 2026 final.

Title: UEFA Euro 2024 final
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Euro_2024_final
Summary: The UEFA Euro 2024 final was a football match that determined the winners of UEFA Euro 2024. The match was the seventeenth final of the European Championship, a quadrennial tournament contested by the men's national teams of the member associations of UEFA to decide the champions of Europe. The match was held at the Olympiastadion in Berlin, Germany, on 14 July 2024, and was contested by Spain, in their fifth final, and England, in their second final, but their first appearance in a major men's tournament final held outside their home country. Following their defeat in the previous final, England also became the fourth different side to appear in two consecutive Euro finals, after the Soviet Union (1960 and 1964), West Germany (1972, 1976 and 1980), unified Germany (1992 and 1996), and Spain (2008 and 2012).
In front of a crowd of 65,600, Spain won the match 2–1 for their record-breaking fourth UEFA European Championship title (after 1964, 2008 and 2012), surpassing Germany as the sole record-winners of the competition. It was also their third title in the last five editions of the tournament.
Spain won all seven matches they played in the competition, the first side to accomplish this since France won five out of five in 1984, and set a new record for most goals scored in a single European Championship, with fifteen. England, meanwhile, became the first side to lose consecutive finals. This was also the first time both finalists conceded in every knockout game contested since the tournament's expansion in 1980.