Title: Real Madrid CF
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_Madrid_CF
Summary: Real Madrid Club de Fútbol (Spanish pronunciation: [reˈal maˈðɾið ˈkluβ ðe ˈfuðβol] ) is a Spanish professional association football club based in Madrid. The club competes in La Liga, the top tier of Spanish football.
Founded in 1902 as Madrid Football Club, the club has traditionally worn a white home kit. The honorific title 'Real' is Spanish for "Royal" and was bestowed by Alfonso XIII in 1920. Real Madrid have played their home matches in the Bernabéu since 1947. Unlike most European sporting clubs, Real Madrid's members have owned and operated the club throughout its history. The club is one of the most widely supported in the world and the most followed sports club across social media. It was estimated to be worth $6.6 billion in 2024, making it the world's most valuable football club. In 2024, it became the first football club to make €1 billion ($1.08bn) in revenue. The club anthem is the "Hala Madrid y nada más".
Real Madrid is one of the most successful football clubs in the world and the most decorated club in Europe. In Spanish domestic football, the club has won 71 trophies; a record 36 La Liga titles, 20 Copa del Rey, 13 Supercopa de España, a Copa Eva Duarte and a Copa de la Liga. In International football, Real Madrid have won a record 35 trophies: a record 15 European Cup/UEFA Champions League titles, a record six UEFA Super Cups, two UEFA Cups, a joint-record two Latin Cups, a record one Iberoamerican Cup, and a record nine world championships. Madrid has been ranked joint first a record number of times in the IFFHS Club World Ranking. In UEFA's club ranking, Madrid ranks first in the all-time club ranking.
As one of the three founding members of La Liga never relegated from the top division along with Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao, Real Madrid has many long-standing rivalries, most notably El Clásico with Barcelona and El Derbi Madrileño with Atlético Madrid. The club established itself as a major force in Spanish and European football during the 1950s and 60s, winning five consecutive and six overall European Cups. This success was replicated on the domestic front, with Madrid winning 12 league titles in 16 years. This team, which included Alfredo Di Stéfano, Ferenc Puskás, Paco Gento and Raymond Kopa, is considered by some in the sport to be the greatest of all time. Real Madrid is known for its Galácticos policy, which involves signing the world's best players, such as Ronaldo, Zinedine Zidane and David Beckham to create a superstar team. In 2009, Madrid signed Cristiano Ronaldo for a record-breaking £80 million (€94 million) from Manchester United; he became the club's and history's all-time top goal-scorer. In addition to signing star players, Real Madrid develops homegrown talent through its academy, La Fábrica, which has produced notable graduates such as Raúl, Iker Casillas, and Dani Carvajal, and has supplied the highest number of players to Europe's top five leagues.
Real Madrid was recognized as the greatest football club of the 20th century, receiving the FIFA Centennial Order of Merit in 2004. Real Madrid has the highest number of participations in the European Cup/UEFA Champions League (55), a tournament in which they hold the records for most wins, draws and goals scored. Real Madrid is the only club to have won three consecutive titles in the European Cup/UEFA Champions League twice, achieving this in 1956-58 and 2016-18. In 2024, they won a record-extending 15th Champions League title (the sixth in eleven seasons), recognized as such by Guinness World Records. Real Madrid is the first club across all Europe's top-five leagues to win 100 trophies in all competitions. As of May 2026, Real Madrid are ranked 2nd in UEFA club rankings, and first over 2013–23 coefficient.

Title: Cristiano Ronaldo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cristiano_Ronaldo
Summary: Cristiano Ronaldo dos Santos Aveiro (born 5 February 1985) is a Portuguese professional footballer who plays as a forward for and captains the Saudi Pro League club Al-Nassr and the Portugal national team. Nicknamed CR7, he is widely regarded as one of the greatest players in history, having won numerous individual accolades throughout his career including five Ballon d'Or awards, a record three UEFA Men's Player of the Year Awards, and four European Golden Shoes. He was named the world's best player five times by FIFA.
Ronaldo is one of the most decorated players in the history of professional football, having won 35 trophies in his career, including five UEFA Champions Leagues, two UEFA Nations Leagues and the UEFA European Championship. He holds the records for most goals (140) and assists (42) in the Champions League, most goals (14) and assists (8) in the European Championship, most international appearances (233), most men's international goals (146), and most international victories (141). He is the only player to have scored 100 goals with four different clubs and to finish as top scorer in four different domestic leagues. He has made over 1,300 professional career appearances, the most by an outfield player, and has scored over 970 official senior career goals for club and country, making him the top goalscorer of all time.
Born in Funchal, Madeira, Ronaldo began his career with Sporting CP before signing with Manchester United in 2003. He gradually established himself as an integral player for the club, winning three consecutive Premier League titles, the 2007–08 Champions League, and the 2008 FIFA Club World Cup. For his performances in 2007–08, Ronaldo was awarded his first Ballon d'Or at age 23. In 2009, he joined Real Madrid in a deal worth €94 million (£80 million), which was the most expensive transfer in history at the time. He was at the forefront of Madrid's resurgence as a dominant European force, helping them win four Champions Leagues between 2014 and 2018, including the long-awaited La Décima in 2014, where he set the record for most goals scored in a Champions League season. With Madrid, he also won two La Liga titles, won the Ballon d'Or in 2013, 2014, 2016, and 2017, and became the club's all-time top goalscorer.
Following issues with the hierarchy at Real Madrid, Ronaldo signed for Juventus in 2018 in a transfer worth a league record of €100 million, and was pivotal in winning two consecutive Serie A titles, the Coppa Italia, and the Capocannoniere in 2021 as the league's top scorer. In 2021, he returned to Manchester United, but his contract was terminated in 2022 after a public dispute with the club's management. Ronaldo joined Al-Nassr in 2023, and led them to the Saudi Pro League title in 2026, while also finishing as the league's top scorer in 2024 and 2025.
Ronaldo made his international debut for Portugal in 2003 at the age of 18, and has earned more than 200 caps, making him history's most-capped male player. He scored his first international goal in Euro 2004, where he helped Portugal reach the final. He assumed the captaincy of the national team ahead of Euro 2008, and led Portugal to their first major tournament title at Euro 2016. At Euro 2020, he received the Golden Boot as the top scorer. He won the UEFA Nations Leagues in 2019 and 2025, finishing as the top scorer in both the tournaments. In 2026, he became the first player to score in six World Cup tournaments and his country's top goalscorer at the World Cup (11).

One of the world's most famous and marketable athletes, Ronaldo was ranked by Sportico as the third highest-paid athlete of all time in April 2026. In 2026, Ronaldo appeared on the Forbes World’s Billionaires list for the first time, with a net worth of $1.2 billion. Time included him on their list of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2014. He is the most popular athlete on social media, with over 1 billion followers across Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Instagram. Ronaldo was named in the UEFA Ultimate Team of the Year in 2015, the All-time UEFA Euro XI in 2016, and the Ballon d'Or Dream Team in 2020. In recognition of his record-breaking goalscoring success, he received special awards for Outstanding Career Achievement by FIFA in 2021.

Title: European Cup and UEFA Champions League records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Cup_and_UEFA_Champions_League_records_and_statistics
Summary: This page details statistics of all seasons of the European Cup and Champions League. These statistics do not include the qualifying rounds of the UEFA Champions League, unless otherwise noted.

Title: FIFA World Cup records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFA_World_Cup_records_and_statistics
Summary: As of the 2026 edition, 84 national teams have competed at the finals of the men's FIFA World Cup. Brazil is the only team to have appeared in all 23 tournaments to date, with Germany having participated in 21, Argentina in 19, and Italy and Mexico both in 18. Eight nations have won the tournament. The inaugural winners in 1930 were Uruguay; the current champions are Spain. The most successful nation is Brazil, which has won the cup on five occasions. Five teams have appeared in FIFA World Cup finals without winning, while twelve more have appeared in the semi-finals.

Title: List of world association football records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_world_association_football_records
Summary: This article features a list of men's professional FIFA records in association football, in any football league, cup, or other competition around the world, including professionals, semi-professionals, and amateurs unless otherwise stated. Friendly club matches are generally not eligible for the records. The article includes comprehensive statistics on official football leagues worldwide in general, without taking league rankings or coefficients into account. The statistics apply only to first teams, figures for reserve teams and youth teams are not included unless otherwise stated.
These records are divided based on whether they relate to players, coaches, clubs, or stadiums.