Title: Rotterdam
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rotterdam
Summary: Rotterdam ( ROT-ər-dam, UK also  ROT-ər-DAM; Dutch: [ˌrɔtərˈdɑm] ) is the second-largest city in the Netherlands by population and the largest by area (319.4 km2). It is in the province of South Holland, part of the North Sea mouth of the Rhine–Meuse–Scheldt delta, via the New Meuse inland shipping channel, dug to connect to the Meuse at first and now to the Rhine.
Rotterdam's history goes back to 1270, when a dam was constructed in the Rotte. In 1340, Rotterdam was granted city rights by William IV, Count of Holland.
The Rotterdam–The Hague metropolitan area, with a population of approximately 2.7 million, is the 10th-largest in the European Union and the most populous in the country.
A major logistic and economic centre, Rotterdam is Europe's largest seaport. In 2022, Rotterdam had a population of 655,468 and is home to over 180 different nationalities.
Rotterdam is known for its university, riverside setting, lively cultural life, maritime heritage and modern architecture. The near-complete destruction of the city centre during the World War II German bombing has resulted in a varied architectural landscape, including skyscrapers designed by architects such as Rem Koolhaas, Piet Blom and Ben van Berkel.
The Rhine, Meuse and Scheldt give waterway access into the heart of Western Europe, including the highly industrialized Ruhr. The extensive distribution system including rail, roads, and waterways have earned Rotterdam the nicknames "Gateway to Europe" and "Gateway to the World".

Title: Independent politician
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician
Summary: An independent politician or non-affiliated politician is a politician formally not affiliated with any political party. In accordance with the applicable electoral law which regulates electoral process in a representative democracy, such non-affiliated politicians are not nominated by political parties, but most commonly by a qualified number of citizens, thus becoming independent candidates, or civic candidates. As in the case of party-candidates, an independent electoral candidacy can be individual (a single independent candidate for a single-seat electoral unit), or collective (electoral list of independent candidates for a multi-seat electoral unit).
Politicians may also become independents after losing or repudiating affiliation with a political party. Independents sometimes choose to form a party, alliance, or technical group with other independents, and may formally register that organization. Even where the word "independent" is used, such alliances can have much in common with a political party, especially if there is an organization which needs to approve the "independent" candidates.
There are various reasons why someone may stand for office as an independent. Some independent politicians disagree with the idea or concept of political parties; viewing them as politically corrupt. Others may have political views that do not align with the platforms of any political party and therefore they choose not to affiliate with them. Some independent politicians may not be associated with a party, perhaps as former members of it or else have views that align with it, but choose not to stand in its name, or are unable to do so because the party in question has selected another candidate. Others may belong to or support a political party at the national level but believe they should not formally represent it (and thus be subject to its policies) at another level. In some cases, a politician may be a member of an unregistered party and therefore officially recognised as an independent.

Title: Ed van Thijn
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ed_van_Thijn
Summary: Eduard van Thijn (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈeːdyʋɑrt ˈɛt fɑn ˈtɛin]; 16 August 1934 – 19 December 2021) was a Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA) and historian. He was a member of the Municipal Council of Amsterdam (1962–1971), member of the House of Representatives (1967–1981; 1982–1983), Minister of the Interior (1981–1982; 1994), Mayor of Amsterdam (1983–1994), and member of the Senate (1999–2007).
Van Thijn was also a prolific author, having written more than a dozen books since 1977 about politics, the history of the Jews during World War II, the history of socialism and several autobiographies. He was known for his abilities as a manager and policy wonk. He continued to comment on political affairs until his retirement in 2017 and holds the distinction as the longest-serving Mayor of Amsterdam after World War II with 10 years.

Title: Concerns and controversies at the 2024 Summer Olympics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concerns_and_controversies_at_the_2024_Summer_Olympics
Summary: Numerous concerns and controversies arose leading up to and during the 2024 Summer Olympics, which were held in Paris, France. Major concerns included security, Israel's participation amidst the Gaza war, and the inclusion of Russian and Belarusian athletes as neutrals amidst the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Despite the nominal Olympic Truce, both conflicts contributed to the complex political backdrop of the Games.

Title: Abdication of Henri, Grand Duke of Luxembourg
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abdication_of_Henri,_Grand_Duke_of_Luxembourg
Summary: Grand Duke Henri abdicated the throne of Luxembourg in favour of his eldest son, Guillaume V, on 3 October 2025 at the Grand Ducal Palace in Luxembourg City.