Title: Gross domestic product
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gross_domestic_product
Summary: Gross domestic product (GDP) is a monetary measure of the total market value of all of the final goods and services which are produced and rendered during a specific period of time (usually a year) by a country or countries. GDP is often used to measure the economic activity of a country or region. The major components of GDP are consumption, government spending, net exports (exports minus imports), and investment. Changing any of these factors can increase the size of the economy. For example, population growth through mass immigration can raise consumption and demand for public services, thereby contributing to GDP growth. However, GDP is not a measure of overall standard of living or well-being, as it does not account for how income is distributed among the population. A country may rank high in GDP but still experience jobless growth depending on its planned economic structure and strategies. Dividing total GDP by the population gives an idealized rough measure of GDP per capita. Several national and international economic organizations, such as the OECD and the International Monetary Fund, maintain their own definitions of GDP.
GDP is often used as a metric for international comparisons as well as a broad measure of economic progress. It serves as a statistical indicator of national development and progress. Total GDP can also be broken down into the contribution of each industry or sector of the economy. Nominal GDP is useful when comparing national economies on the international market using current exchange rate. To compare economies over time, inflation can be adjusted by comparing real instead of nominal values. For cross-country comparisons, GDP figures are often adjusted for differences in the cost of living using purchasing power parity (PPP). GDP per capita at purchasing power parity can be useful for comparing living standards between nations. 
GDP has been criticized for leaving out key externalities, such as resource extraction, environmental impact and unpaid domestic work. Alternative economic indicators such as doughnut economics use other measures, such as the Human Development Index or Better Life Index, as better approaches to measuring the effect of the economy on human development and well-being.

Title: List of countries by GDP (PPP) per capita
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_GDP_(PPP)_per_capita
Summary: A country's gross domestic product (GDP) at purchasing power parity (PPP) per capita is the PPP value of all final goods and services produced within an economy in a given year, divided by the average (or mid-year) population for the same year. This is similar to nominal GDP per capita but adjusted for the cost of living in each country.
In 2026, the estimated average GDP per capita (PPP) of all of the countries was $25,591. For rankings regarding wealth, see list of countries by wealth per adult.

Title: List of countries by GDP (nominal) per capita
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_GDP_(nominal)_per_capita
Summary: Nominal gross domestic product (GDP) per capita is the total value of a country's finished goods and services (gross domestic product) divided by its total population (per capita).
Gross domestic product per capita is often used as a proxy indicator of a country's standard of living; however, this is inaccurate because GDP per capita is not a measure of personal income and does not take into account social and environmental costs and benefits. Measures of personal income include average wage, real income, median income, disposable income and gross national income (GNI) per capita.
Comparisons of GDP per capita are also frequently made on the basis of purchasing power parity (PPP), to adjust for differences in the cost of living in different countries. PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem but not others; it does not reflect the value of economic output in international trade, and it also requires more estimation than GDP per capita. On the whole, PPP per capita figures are more narrowly spread than nominal GDP per capita figures.
GDP per capita does not consider differences in the cost of living in different countries, and the results may vary greatly from one year to another based on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country's currency. Such fluctuations may change a country's ranking from one year to the next, while the standard of living of its population might not change by as much.
Several leading GDP-per-capita (nominal) jurisdictions may be considered tax havens, and their GDP data subject to material distortion by tax-planning activities. Examples include Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, Ireland and Luxembourg.
Non-sovereign entities (the world, continents, and some dependent territories) and states with limited international recognition are included in the list in cases in which they appear in the sources. These economies are not ranked in the charts (except Kosovo and Taiwan) but are listed in sequence by GDP for comparison. Three UN members (Cuba, Monaco and North Korea) do not belong to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), hence their economies are not ranked. Kosovo is not a member of the United Nations but is a member of the IMF. Taiwan is not an IMF member but is listed in the official IMF indices.

Title: List of countries by past and projected GDP (nominal)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_past_and_projected_GDP_(nominal)
Summary: This is an alphabetical list of countries by past and projected gross domestic product (nominal) as ranked by the IMF. Figures are based on official exchange rates, not on the purchasing power parity (PPP) methodology. Values are given in millions of United States dollars (USD) and have not been adjusted for inflation. These figures have been taken from the International Monetary Fund's World Economic Outlook (WEO) Database (April 2026 edition) and/or other sources.
For older GDP trends, see List of regions by past GDP (PPP).

Title: List of U.S. states and territories by GDP
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_U.S._states_and_territories_by_GDP
Summary: This is a list of U.S. states and territories by gross domestic product (GDP). This article presents the 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia and their nominal GDP at current prices.
The data source for the list is the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) in 2025. The BEA defined GDP by state as "the sum of value added from all industries in the state."
Overall, in the calendar year 2025, the United States' Nominal GDP at Current Prices totaled at $30.762 trillion, as compared to $29.298 trillion in 2024.
The three U.S. states with the highest GDPs were California ($4.251 trillion), Texas ($2.904 trillion), and New York ($2.468 trillion). The three U.S. states with the lowest GDPs were Vermont ($48.350 billion), Wyoming ($52.622 billion), and Alaska ($75.012 billion).
GDP per capita also varied widely throughout the United States in 2025, with New York ($123,369), Massachusetts ($114,635), and Washington (state) ($111,860) recording the three highest GDP per capita figures in the U.S., while Mississippi ($55,877), West Virginia ($61,873), and Arkansas ($63,703) recorded the three lowest GDP per capita figures in the U.S. The District of Columbia, though, recorded a GDP per capita figure far higher than any U.S. state in 2025 at $277,689.