Title: Goodreads Choice Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goodreads_Choice_Awards
Summary: The Goodreads Choice Awards is a yearly award program, first launched on Goodreads in 2009.
Winners are determined by users voting on books that Goodreads has nominated or books of their choosing, released in the given year. Most books that Goodreads nominates are from verified Goodreads authors.  The final voting round collects the top 10 books from 20 different categories.

Title: Riley Sager
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riley_Sager
Summary: Todd Ritter, also known under the noms de plume of Riley Sager and Alan Finn, is an American author of thriller novels.

Title: B. A. Paris
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B._A._Paris
Summary: B.A. Paris is a Franco-Irish author of psychological thrillers and drama novels. She writes under a pen name. Her eight books have sold over nine million copies worldwide, been translated into 41 languages and distributed in 50 territories. Her debut novel, Behind Closed Doors (2016), was an instant New York Times and Sunday Times bestseller, and won the Platinum Nielsen Bestseller Award in 2019 for sales of over one million copies in the UK alone. In 2023, she was named the recipient of a lifetime achievement award in Poland, having sold over 1.3 million copies of her novels in the country, and in 2024 her second book, The Breakdown (2017), was adapted for film as Blackwater Lane. Her latest novel, When I Kill You, was published in 2026.

Title: The Inheritance Games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Inheritance_Games
Summary: The Inheritance Games is a young adult novel series by author Jennifer Lynn Barnes, published by Little, Brown Books for Young Readers. The series focuses on a teenaged girl, Avery Kylie Grambs, and the Hawthorne family. It has garnered widespread acclaim for its intricate plot, twists, and engaging characters, making it a favorite among young adult readers. It currently consists of three main books: The Inheritance Games (2020), The Hawthorne Legacy (2021), The Final Gambit (2022). Also connected to the series are a standalone book that follows the events of the main series, The Brothers Hawthorne (2023), and a short story and novella collection, Games Untold: An Inheritance Games Collection (2024). A spinoff series, The Grandest Game, currently features two books: The Grandest Game (2024) and Glorious Rivals (2025).
In The Inheritance Games, it is revealed that Avery has been chosen to inherit the fortune of deceased billionaire Tobias Hawthorne, whom she has never met or heard of. The series follows her efforts, along with those of the Hawthorne family, to uncover the truth of her inheritance.

Title: Alchemised
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alchemised
Summary: Alchemised is the debut fantasy novel of American author SenLinYu. The book was published in September 2025 by Del Rey Books in the United States and Penguin imprint Michael Joseph in the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Australia. Described as both dark fantasy, horror and gothic romance, and sometimes erroneously classified as dark romance, the standalone novel follows the life of a former alchemist, Helena Marino, as she recovers her memories of a civil war. It reached number one on the New York Times best-seller list in the week after its release.