Title: Association football
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Association_football
Summary: Association football, commonly known as football or soccer, is a team sport played between two teams of 11 players who mostly use their feet to kick an inflated ball around a pitch (playing field).
The objective of the game is to score more goals than the opposing team by moving the ball into the rectangular-framed goal which that team defends. Traditionally, the game has been played over two 45-minute halves, for a total match time of 90 minutes. With an estimated 250 million players active in over 200 countries and territories, it is the world's most popular sport.
Association football is played in accordance with the Laws of the Game, a set of rules that has been in effect since 1863 and maintained by the International Football Association Board (IFAB) since 1886. The game is played with a football that is 68–70 cm (27–28 in) in circumference. When the ball is in play, the players mainly use their feet, but may also use any other part of their body, except for their hands or arms, to control, strike, or pass the ball; the head, chest, and thighs are commonly used. Only the goalkeepers may use their hands and arms, but only within their own penalty area. Depending on the format of the competition, an equal number of goals scored may result in a draw being declared with 1 point awarded to each team, or the game may go into extra time or a penalty shoot-out.
Internationally, association football is governed by FIFA. Under FIFA, there are six continental confederations: AFC, CAF, CONCACAF, CONMEBOL, OFC, and UEFA. National associations (e.g. the FA in England, U.S. Soccer in the United States, etc.) are responsible for managing the game in their own countries both professionally and at an amateur level, and coordinating competitions in accordance with the Laws of the Game. The most prestigious senior international competition is the FIFA World Cup. The men's World Cup is the most-viewed sporting event in the world, surpassing the Olympic Games. The most prestigious competition in European club football is the UEFA Champions League, which attracts an extensive television audience worldwide. The final of the men's Champions League is the most-watched annual sporting event in the world.

Title: Magnus Carlsen
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnus_Carlsen
Summary: Sven Magnus Øen Carlsen (born 30 November 1990) is a Norwegian chess grandmaster. Carlsen is a five-time World Chess Champion, reigning six-time World Rapid Chess Champion, reigning nine-time World Blitz Chess Champion and the reigning FIDE Freestyle Chess World Champion. Carlsen has held the No. 1 position in the FIDE rankings since 1 July 2011, the longest consecutive period, and trails only Garry Kasparov in time spent as the highest-rated player in the world. Without accounting for rating inflation, his peak rating of 2882 is the highest rating achieved since 1970. He also holds the record for the longest unbeaten streak at the elite level in classical chess at 125 games.
A chess prodigy, Carlsen earned the title of grandmaster at age 13, at the time becoming the second-youngest grandmaster in history. Two years later, he won his first Norwegian Chess Championship. At 17, he achieved his first victory in an elite tournament, finishing joint first in the top group of Corus. He surpassed a rating of 2800 at 18, the youngest at the time to do so, after winning the 2009 Pearl Spring Chess Tournament with a performance rating of 3002. In 2010, at 19, Carlsen reached the No. 1 position in the FIDE world rankings, the youngest person ever to do so.
Carlsen became World Chess Champion in 2013 by defeating Vishy Anand. He retained his title against Anand the following year and won both the 2014 World Rapid Championship and World Blitz Championship, becoming the first player to hold all three titles simultaneously, a feat which he repeated in 2019 and 2022. No other player has achieved the World Rapid and World Blitz double, which Carlsen achieved five times. He defended his classical world title against Sergey Karjakin in 2016, Fabiano Caruana in 2018, and Ian Nepomniachtchi in 2021. He declined to defend his title in 2023, citing a lack of motivation. In 2023, he won his first Chess World Cup. He has also won every single edition of the Champions Chess Tour and its successor, the Esports World Cup, from 2020 through 2026.
Known for his attacking style as a teenager, Carlsen has since developed into a universal player. He uses a variety of openings to make it harder for opponents to prepare against him and reduce the utility of pre-game computer analysis. In particular, Carlsen has been praised for his endgame play and exceptional ability to outplay his opponents in equal positions. Carlsen is often cited as the greatest chess player of all time.

Title: List of Jews in sports
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Jews_in_sports
Summary: This list of Jewish athletes in sports contains athletes who are Jewish and have attained outstanding achievements in sports. The topic of Jewish participation in sports is discussed extensively in academic and popular literature.
Sports have been a historical avenue for Jewish people to overcome obstacles toward their participation in secular society. Jewish people immigrated from the countries where they had faced persecution. Some made Aliyah to the State of Israel, while others moved elsewhere.
The criteria for inclusion in this list are:

1–3 places winners at major international tournaments;
For team sports, winning in preliminary competitions of finals at major international tournaments, or playing for several seasons for clubs of major national leagues; or
Holders of past and current world records.
Boldface denotes a current competitor.
To be included in the list, one does not necessarily have to practice Judaism. Some members of the list may practice another faith or not at all; they do have to be of either ethnic Jewish descent or other Judaism-related background.

Title: Freestyle football
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freestyle_football
Summary: Freestyle football (football juggling and tricks) is the art of juggling a football using any part of the body, excluding the elbows to the hands. It combines football tricks, dance, acrobatics and music to entertain onlookers and compete with opponents. The official governing body for this sport is known as the World Freestyle Football Association (WFFA).

Title: Gable Steveson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gable_Steveson
Summary: Gable Dan Steveson (born May 31, 2000) is an American freestyle wrestler, professional mixed martial artist, former professional wrestler and football defensive tackle. He is currently signed to the Heavyweight divisions of both Real American Freestyle and Ultimate Fighting Championship.
In freestyle wrestling, Steveson was a 2020 Summer Olympic gold medalist, and was also a three-time age-group world champion. In folkstyle wrestling, Steveson was a two-time Dan Hodge Trophy winner, a two-time NCAA Division I national champion, a four-time Big Ten Conference champion, and five-time All-American out of the University of Minnesota.
Steveson made his professional mixed martial arts (MMA) debut at LFA 217 on September 12, 2025.
He was previously signed to WWE from 2021 to 2024, but was released after a poorly-received televised match. Steveson was signed to the Buffalo Bills in 2024, but was released before the start of the 2024 NFL season.