Title: Robot-sumo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robot-sumo
Summary: Robot-sumo (Japanese: ロボット相撲) is an engineering and robotics competition in which two robots attempt to push each other out of a circular arena, in a similar fashion to the sport of sumo. The robots used in this competition are called "sumo robots", "sumobots" or simply "sumos".
Competitions typically involve autonomously operated wheeled mobile robots. The engineering challenges are for the robot to find its opponent (usually accomplished with infrared or ultra-sonic sensors) and to push it out of the dohyō. A robot should also avoid leaving the arena, usually by means of a sensor that detects the edge. The most common mechanical design is to use a wedge with a blade at the front to lift the opposing robot and push it more easily.

Robot-Sumo originated in Japan in 1989 when FUJISOFT Inc. [jp] organized an experimental robot-sumo tournament, which would later be established as the All Japan Robot Sumo Tournament [jp](Japanese: 全日本ロボット相撲大会 zen'nippon robotto sumou taikai). Since 1998, FUJISOFT has collaborated with more than 30 countries, and robot-sumo has spread and has been one of the most popular robotics competitions in the world, such as in Europe, Mexico and Brazil, with a total of 80,000 people around the world actively developing sumo robots.
The All Japan Robot-Sumo Tournament has been hailed as the "World Robot-Sumo Championship". In August 2026, however, FUJISOFT announced that it would cease organizing the event, with the 2026 edition being the final tournament.
Robot-sumo competitions still hold amateur status, though high-performance competitions (events contested between technical students, universitarians and graduated engineers hobbyists) require highly complex engineering projects.
Robot-sumo is also often used as an educational tool of engineering, robotics and electronics for simpler protoypes in schools and undergraduate levels. Sumo robots design has also been the subject of studies and research of academic nature as well.

Title: Ronnie O'Sullivan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ronnie_O%27Sullivan
Summary: Ronald Antonio O'Sullivan (born 5 December 1975) is an English professional snooker player. Widely recognised as one of the most talented and accomplished players in snooker history, he has won the World Snooker Championship seven times, a modern-era record he holds jointly with Stephen Hendry. He has also won a record eight Masters titles and a record eight UK Championship titles for a total of 23 Triple Crown titles, the most achieved by any player. He holds the record for the most ranking titles, with 41, and he has been ranked world number one on five occasions throughout his career.
After winning amateur titles including the IBSF World Under-21 Snooker Championship, O'Sullivan turned professional in 1992, aged 16. He won his first ranking event at the 1993 UK Championship and remains the youngest player to win a ranking title. He is also the youngest player to win the Masters, having claimed his first title in 1995. Now also noted for his longevity in the sport, he is the oldest winner of all three Triple Crown events. 
O'Sullivan made his first competitive century break at age 10 and his first competitive maximum break at age 15. He was the first player to achieve 1,000 century breaks in professional competition, which he has since extended to over 1,300 centuries. He has made the highest number of officially recognised maximum breaks in professional competition, with 17, and holds the Guinness World Record for the fastest competitive maximum break, compiled in a time of 5 minutes and 8 seconds at the 1997 World Championship. At the 2026 World Open, he made the highest break in professional snooker history, a 16-red clearance of 153.
During his career, O'Sullivan has experienced depression, mood swings, and drug and alcohol abuse. Known as a controversial and outspoken figure on the professional tour, he has been disciplined on several occasions by the World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association for his behaviour and comments. Outside his playing career, he has worked as a pundit for televised snooker coverage and has written crime novels, autobiographies, and a health and fitness book. A member of the World Snooker Tour Hall of Fame, he was appointed an OBE in 2016. Along with Mark Williams and John Higgins, he is one of three players known as the "Class of '92", who all turned professional during the 1992‍–‍93 season.

Title: COEP Technological University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COEP_Technological_University
Summary: The College of Engineering Pune (COEP) Technological University is a unitary public university of the Government of Maharashtra, situated in Pune, Maharashtra, India. Established in 1854, it is the 3rd oldest engineering education institute in India, after the College of Engineering, Guindy (1794) and IIT Roorkee (1847). The students and alumni are colloquially referred to as COEPians.
On 23 June 2022, the Government of Maharashtra issued a notification regarding upgrading the college to an independent technological university. On 24 March 2022, both the houses of the state government passed the CoEP Technological University bill, which has conferred a unitary state university status on the institute.

Title: List of tallest people
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tallest_people
Summary: This is a list of the tallest people, verified by Guinness World Records or other reliable sources.
According to Guinness World Records, Robert Wadlow of the United States (1918–1940) was the tallest person in recorded history, measuring 272 cm (8 ft 11 in) at the time of his death.
There are reports about taller individuals but most claims are unverified or erroneous. Since antiquity, discoveries have been reported of gigantic human skeletons. Originally thought to belong to mythical giants, these bones were later identified as the exaggerated remains of prehistoric animals, usually whales or elephants. Regular reports in American newspapers in the 18th and 19th centuries of giant human skeletons may have inspired the case of the "petrified" Cardiff Giant, an archaeological hoax.

Title: VEX Robotics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VEX_Robotics
Summary: VEX Robotics is a robotics program for elementary through university students, and a subset of Innovation First International. The VEX Robotics competitions and programs were overseen by the Robotics Education & Competition Foundation (RECF) until May 2026, when VEX split from the foundation and created the Global Robotics & Science Foundation (GRSF) to oversee competition. VEX Robotics Competition was named the largest robotics competition in the world by Guinness World Records. 
There are four leagues of VEX Robotics competitions designed for different age groups and skill levels. The VEX V5 Robotics Competition (V5RC), the largest, is targeted toward middle and high school students. The VEX IQ Robotics Competition (VIQRC) is targeted toward elementary and middle school students. The VEX AI Robotics Competition is a 'spinoff' for high school and college-level students. The competition features no driver control periods, hence the name 'VEX AI'. VEX U is a robotics competition for university students. The game is similar to V5RC, but traditionally features a unique ruleset with more relaxed rules on the construction of their robots, and teams consisting of two robots.
In each of the four competitions, the VEX Robotics Game Design Committee creates a new challenge annually. Students must then design, build, program, and drive a robot to complete the challenge as best they can within the constraints. After competing in local and regional tournaments, qualifying teams are invited to attend the VEX Robotics World Championship.
The description and rules for the season's competition are released during the world championship of the previous season. From 2021 to 2025, the VEX Robotics World Championship was held in Dallas, Texas each year in mid-April or mid-May, depending on which league the teams are competing in. St. Louis, Missouri hosted the event in 2026 and is scheduled to hold the RECF STEM World Championship in 2027. VEX Robotics and the GRSF have not confirmed which city will host the event for the 2027 VEX Robotics World Championship.