Title: Super Bowl LVII halftime show
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Bowl_LVII_halftime_show
Summary: The Super Bowl LVII halftime show, officially known as the Apple Music Super Bowl LVII Halftime Show, was the halftime entertainment of Super Bowl LVII, which took place on February 12, 2023, at State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Arizona. It featured Barbadian singer Rihanna as the headline performer. It was televised nationally in the U.S. by Fox, Fox Deportes, and the Fox Sports and NFL apps, and was the first Super Bowl halftime show to be sponsored by Apple Music. Reaching over 121 million concurrent viewers, it was the 2nd most-watched Super Bowl halftime show until the record would be broken two years later. Rihanna was pregnant during the performance. The show won two awards out of five nominations at the 75th Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards.

Title: Super Bowl LVIII halftime show
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Bowl_LVIII_halftime_show
Summary: The Super Bowl LVIII halftime show, officially known as the Apple Music Super Bowl LVIII Halftime Show, was the halftime entertainment of Super Bowl LVIII, which took place on February 11, 2024, at Allegiant Stadium in Paradise, Nevada. It featured Usher as the headline performer, with guest appearances by Alicia Keys, will.i.am, Lil Jon, Ludacris, H.E.R, and Sonic Boom of the South. The show was televised nationally by CBS and streamed on Paramount+ and the Apple Music app. The television broadcast was watched by 129 million viewers in the US, making it the third most watched halftime show in history.

Title: Super Bowl XLI halftime show
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Bowl_XLI_halftime_show
Summary: The Super Bowl XLI halftime show took place on February 4, 2007, at Dolphin Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida, as part of Super Bowl XLI. It was headlined by Prince. The performance is widely considered the greatest Super Bowl halftime show of all time.

Title: Super Bowl LIX halftime show
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Bowl_LIX_halftime_show
Summary: The Super Bowl LIX halftime show, officially known as the Apple Music Super Bowl LIX Halftime Show for sponsorship reasons, was the halftime entertainment of Super Bowl LIX, which took place on February 9, 2025, at the Caesars Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana. It featured rapper Kendrick Lamar as the headline performer, with guest appearances from singer-songwriter SZA, actor Samuel L. Jackson, tennis player Serena Williams, and record producer Mustard.
On September 8, 2024, the NFL and Apple Music announced its selection of Kendrick Lamar to headline the event, which subsequently received a polarized response. Several major industry rappers criticized the selection, claiming it was a snub against New Orleans native Lil Wayne. Critics mostly praised the selection, saying it was a full-circle moment following Lamar's feud with Drake. Prior to the show, speculation arose over if Lamar would incorporate "Not Like Us" into his performance, following FCC and legal concerns.
The show was televised nationally in the U.S. by Fox and Fox Deportes, with streaming available via Tubi and NFL+. The performance was seen by a combined 133.5 million viewers domestically across all platforms, surpassing Michael Jackson's performance at Super Bowl XXVII in 1993 as the most viewed halftime show in the United States. The show received widespread acclaim, with particular praise for Lamar's performance, its production, tone, and themes. It sparked numerous analyses regarding its social commentary on civil rights in the United States.

Title: Super Bowl LX halftime show
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Bowl_LX_halftime_show
Summary: The Super Bowl LX halftime show, officially known as the Apple Music Super Bowl LX Halftime Show for sponsorship purposes, was the halftime entertainment of Super Bowl LX, which took place on February 8, 2026, at Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, California, United States. It was headlined by Bad Bunny and featured guest appearances from Lady Gaga, Ricky Martin, and Los Pleneros de la Cresta. The performance marked the first time a Latino solo artist headlined the Super Bowl halftime show and the first halftime set performed almost entirely in Spanish.
The show was broadcast across the US on NBC, Peacock, Telemundo, Universo, NFL+ and select NBC Sports digital platforms. It drew 128.2 million viewers domestically across all platforms—making it the fourth-most-watched halftime show in history—and attracted 4.8 million viewers on Telemundo, the network's largest audience for an American football broadcast. It was met with widespread critical acclaim, with critics praising the performance, production, tone, and themes. Analysts highlighted the show's social commentary on Puerto Rico's history, its pan-Latino cultural affirmation, and its recontextualization of "America" and "American" to encompass the entire continent.