Title: Chongqing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chongqing
Summary: Chongqing is a provincial-level direct-administered municipality in Southwestern China. It is one of the four direct-administered municipalities of China and the only one located inland. 
The municipality covers a large geographical area roughly the size of Austria, which includes several disjunct urban areas in addition to Chongqing proper. Due to its classification, the municipality of Chongqing is the largest city proper in the world by population, though it is not the most populous urban area.
The municipality of Chongqing is the only Chinese city with a resident population of over 30 million, but that number includes its large rural population. In 2020, Chongqing surpassed Shanghai as China's largest municipality by urban population and, as of 2024, it had an urban population of 23.01 million. The municipality contains 26 districts, eight counties, and four autonomous counties.
The city served as the wartime capital of the Republic of China (ROC) during the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937–1945). On 14 March 1997, the current municipality was separated from the surrounding province of Sichuan, with the goal of furthering development in the central and western parts of the country.
Chongqing is one of China's national central cities. It is a connection in the Yangtze River Economic Belt and a base for the country's Belt and Road Initiative. Chongqing Jiangbei International Airport is the second-busiest airport in China, and is one of the top 50 busiest airports in the world. The city's monorail system is the world's longest and busiest, with 70 stations—the most of any system. It is the headquarters of  Changan Automobile, one of the "Big Four" car manufacturers in China. As of 2023, the city hosts 12 foreign representations, the fifth-most in China, behind Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Chengdu. It is one of the top 35 cities globally by scientific research output, and the municipality is home to several notable universities, including Chongqing University, Southwest University, and Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommunications.

Title: Mayor of Chongqing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor_of_Chongqing
Summary: The mayor of Chongqing, officially the mayor of the Chongqing Municipal People's Government, is the head of Chongqing Municipality and leader of the Chongqing Municipal People's Government.
The mayor is elected by the Chongqing Municipal People's Congress, and responsible to it and its Standing Committee. The mayor is a provincial level official and is responsible for the overall decision-making of the municipal government. The mayor is assisted by an executive vice mayor as well as several vice mayors. The mayor generally serves as the deputy secretary of the Chongqing Municipal Committee of the Chinese Communist Party and as a member of the CCP Central Committee. The mayor the second-highest ranking official in the city after the secretary of the CCP Chongqing Committee. 
The current mayor is Chen Xinwu, who took office on 31 July 2026.

Title: Economy of Chongqing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_Chongqing
Summary: The economy of Chongqing, China, has developed rapidly since it was separated from the Sichuan and became a centrally-administered municipality in 1997. In 2019, it was the sixth-largest Chinese city economy and ranked as China's third-largest municipal economy. In China's overall layout, Chongqing is also important for connecting China's underdeveloped western region with its more advanced eastern region, as well as promoting the economy of the mid-lower reaches of Yangtze river and the central western region.
In 2011, Chongqing's gross domestic product exceeded 1 trillion Yuan (US$158.5 billion) and in 2018, Chongqing's gross domestic product was estimated to be 2.036 trillion Yuan (US$0.29 trillion). From 2002 to 2017, Chongqing maintained a two-digit GDP growth rate for over 15 years, with the peak growth rate of 17.1% reached in 2010. According to the World Bank, on a GDP per capita basis, Chongqing's GDP per capita was less than US$600 when Chongqing became a centrally-administered municipality in 1997. By 2019, it has grown to be 75,828 Yuan (US$10,720). According to the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security, the registered unemployment rate in Chongqing was 2.96% by the end of 2018, with its lowest recording being 2.9% in 1997 and the highest being 4.120% in 2005.
Chongqing engaged in the process of upgrading its current economic structure following Chinese Communist Party general secretary Xi Jinping's nationwide economic reform announced in 2015. The goal for Chongqing specifically, and for other parts of China in general, is to balance out the city's excessive industrial output that is not met by the city's weak domestic consumption, which only accounted for approximately 50% of its GDP in the first three-quarters of 2019. Under this new structural reform, Chongqing has set up development zones to help with attracting foreign investors and the growth of more advanced Manufacturing industries, such as the electronics industry. Examples of these development zones include the Chongqing High Tech Industrial Development Zone, and the Xiyong Microelectronic Industrial Park. By 2017, the 41 municipal development zones and 5 state high-tech zones had been set up in Chongqing.
Chongqing also has established special business zones. For instance, the Jiangbeizui CBD is a large central business district is being constructed in the centre of the city of Chongqing, which was due to be completed in 2018. It aims to attract financial institutions to become a financial center in the future. New North Zone is also an economic administrative zone in north Chongqing, which covers a land area of 130 square kilometres (50 sq mi) and was established in 2002 to include Chongqing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Chongqing High-Tech Industrial Development Zone and Chongqing Export Processing Trade Zone.

Title: Liberation Monument in Chongqing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberation_Monument_in_Chongqing
Summary: Jiefangbei, originally known as the War Victory Monument, is located in the heart of the central business district of Jiefangbei in Yuzhong District, Chongqing, China, at the intersection of Minzu Road, Minquan Road and Zourong Road, and is a landmark of Chongqing.
It was listed as the second batch of municipal cultural relics protection units in Chongqing on 23 January 1987. It was announced as the third batch of provincial key cultural relics protection units in Sichuan Province on 16 April 1991. It was listed as the seventh batch of national key cultural relics protection units on 5 March 2013.

Title: Wei Tao
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wei_Tao
Summary: Wei Tao (Chinese: 韦韬; born April 1970) is a Chinese politician of Zhuang ethnicity, currently serving as acting chairman of the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region People's Government, in office since July 2025. Previously, he served as party secretary of Taiyuan.
He was a delegate to the 13th National People's Congress. He is a representative of the 20th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party and an alternate of the 20th Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party.