Title: Streaming media
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streaming_media
Summary: Streaming media is the method by which multimedia data is delivered through a network for playback using a digital media player or media player software. Media is transferred in a stream of packets from a server to a client and is rendered in real-time or near real-time; this contrasts with file downloading, a process in which the end-user obtains an entire media file before consuming the content. Streaming is more commonly used for video on demand, streaming television, and music streaming services over the Internet.
While streaming is most commonly associated with multimedia from a remote server over the Internet, it also includes offline multimedia between devices on a local area network. For example, using DLNA and a home server, or in a personal area network between two devices using Bluetooth (which uses radio waves rather than IP). Online streaming was initially popularized by RealNetworks and Microsoft in the 1990s and has since grown to become the globally most popular method for consuming music and videos, with numerous competing subscription services being offered since the 2010s. Audio streaming to wireless speakers, often using Bluetooth, is another use that has become prevalent during that decade. Live streaming is the real-time delivery of content during production, much as live television broadcasts content via linear and cable channels.
Distinguishing delivery methods from the media applies specifically to, as most of the traditional media delivery systems are either inherently streaming (e.g., radio, television) or inherently non-streaming (e.g., books, videotapes, audio CDs). The term "streaming media" can apply to media other than video and audio, such as live closed captioning and real-time text, which are all considered "streaming text".

Title: 2024 Summer Olympics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Summer_Olympics
Summary: The 2024 Summer Olympics (French: Les Jeux Olympiques d'été de 2024), officially the Games of the XXXIII Olympiad (French: Jeux de la XXXIIIe olympiade de l'ère moderne) and branded as Paris 2024, were an international multi-sport event held in France from 26 July to 11 August 2024, with several events starting from 24 July. Paris was the host city, with events (mainly football) held in 16 additional cities in metropolitan France, including the sailing centre in the second-largest city of France, Marseille, on the Mediterranean Sea, as well as one subsite for surfing in Tahiti, French Polynesia.
Paris was awarded the Games at the 131st IOC Session in Lima, Peru, on 13 September 2017. After multiple withdrawals that left only Paris and Los Angeles in contention, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) approved a process to concurrently award the 2024 and 2028 Summer Olympics to the two remaining candidate cities. Having previously hosted in 1900 and 1924, Paris became the second city ever to host the Summer Olympics three times, after London (1908, 1948, and 2012). Paris 2024 marked the centennial of the 1924 Summer Games and the 1924 Winter Olympics in Chamonix (the first Winter Olympics), as well as the sixth Olympic Games hosted by France (three Summer Olympics and three Winter Olympics). The Summer Games returned to the traditional four-year Olympiad cycle, after the 2020 edition was postponed to 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Paris 2024 featured the debut of breaking as an Olympic sport, and was the final Olympic Games held during the IOC presidency of Thomas Bach. The 2024 Games were expected to cost €9 billion. The opening ceremony was held outside of a stadium for the first time in modern Olympic history, being outdoors in the Paris's downtown and athletes were paraded by boat along the Seine. Paris 2024 was the first Olympics in history to reach full gender parity on the field of play, with equal numbers of male and female athletes.
The United States topped the medal table for the fourth consecutive Summer Games and 19th time overall, with 40 gold and 126 total medals. China tied with the United States on gold (40), but finished second due to having fewer silvers; the nation won 91 medals overall. This was the first time a gold medal tie had occurred between the two most successful nations in Summer Olympic history. Japan finished third with 20 gold and 45 total medals, and sixth in the overall medal count. Australia finished fourth with 18 gold and 53 total medals, marking the nation's most successful Summer Olympics of all time, and fifth in the overall medal count. The host nation, France, finished fifth with 16 gold and 64 total medals, marking their first top-five finish since the 1996 Summer Olympics, and fourth in the overall medal count. Dominica, Saint Lucia, Cape Verde and Albania won their first-ever Olympic medals, the former two both being gold, with Botswana and Guatemala also winning their first-ever gold medals. The Refugee Olympic Team also won their first-ever medal: Cindy Ngamba, a refugee from Cameroon, won a bronze in boxing.
Despite some controversies throughout relating to politics, logistics and conditions in the Olympic Village, the Games were considered a success by the press, Parisians and observers upon its conclusion. The Paris Olympics broke all-time records for ticket sales, with more than 9.5 million tickets sold (12.1 million including the Paralympic Games).

Title: Live streaming
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Live_streaming
Summary: Livestreaming, live-streaming, or live streaming is the streaming of video or audio in real time or near real time. While often referred to simply as streaming, the real-time nature of livestreaming differentiates it from other non-live broadcast forms of streamed media such as video-on-demand, vlogs and video-sharing platforms such as YouTube and TikTok.
Livestreaming services encompass a wide variety of topics, including social media, video games, professional sports, and lifecasting. Platforms such as Facebook Live, Periscope, Kuaishou, Douyu, bilibili, YouTube, and 17 include the streaming of scheduled promotions and celebrity events as well as streaming between users, as in videotelephony. Livestreaming sites such as Twitch and Kick have become popular outlets for watching people play video games, such as in esports, Let's Play-style gaming, or speedrunning. Live coverage of sporting events is a common application.
Chat rooms are a key feature in livestreaming, allowing viewers to interact with the broadcaster (streamer) and join ongoing conversations. These rooms often include emojis and emotes as additional communication tools.

Title: 2024 NFL season
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_NFL_season
Summary: The 2024 NFL season was the 105th season of the National Football League (NFL). The season began on September 5, 2024, with reigning Super Bowl champion Kansas City defeating Baltimore in the NFL Kickoff Game. The regular season concluded on January 5, 2025.  The playoffs started on January 11 and concluded with Philadelphia defeating Kansas City in Super Bowl LIX, the league's championship game, at the Caesars Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana, on February 9.

Title: The Game Awards 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Game_Awards_2024
Summary: The Game Awards 2024 was an award show to honor the best video games of 2024. It was the eleventh show hosted by Geoff Keighley, creator and producer of the Game Awards, and held with a live audience at the Peacock Theater in Los Angeles on December 12, 2024, and live streamed across online platforms globally. It featured musical performances from d4vd, Royal & the Serpent, Snoop Dogg, and Twenty One Pilots, and presentations from celebrity guests including Harrison Ford, Hideo Kojima, and Aaron Paul.
Astro Bot and Final Fantasy VII Rebirth led the nominees with seven each, and the former led the show with four wins, including Game of the Year. The inaugural Game Changer award honored Amir Satvat for helping workers in the industry find jobs amid mass layoffs. Several new games were announced, including Elden Ring Nightreign, Intergalactic: The Heretic Prophet, and The Witcher IV. The show was viewed by over 154 million streams, the most in its history to date. Journalists praised the game announcements, developer speeches, and deserving winners, though the eligibility of downloadable content led to mixed responses.