Title: Pulitzer Prize for Fiction
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulitzer_Prize_for_Fiction
Summary: The Pulitzer Prize for Fiction is one of the twenty-three American Pulitzer Prizes that are annually awarded for Letters, Drama, and Music. It recognizes distinguished fiction by an American author, preferably dealing with American life, published during the preceding calendar year. 
As the Pulitzer Prize for the Novel (awarded 1918–1947), it was one of the original Pulitzers; the program was inaugurated in 1917 with seven prizes, four of which were awarded that year (no Novel prize was awarded in 1917, the first one having been granted in 1918).
The name was changed to the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1948 and eligibility was expanded to the broader "distinguished fiction published in book form". The Advisory Board wanted to give the award to James A. Michener's Tales of the South Pacific, which required expanding the category criteria and lifting the ban on short stories.
Finalists have been announced since 1980, usually a total of three.

Title: Pulitzer Prize for Poetry
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulitzer_Prize_for_Poetry
Summary: The Pulitzer Prize for Poetry is one of the seven American Pulitzer Prizes awarded annually for Letters, Drama, and Music. The award came five years after the first Pulitzers were awarded in other categories; Joseph Pulitzer's will had not mentioned poetry. It was first presented in 1922, and is given for a distinguished volume of original verse by an American author, published during the preceding calendar year.
Before the establishment of the award, the 1918 and 1919 Pulitzer cycles included three Pulitzer Prize Special Citations and Awards (called at the time the Columbia University Poetry Prize) for poetry books funded by "a special grant from The Poetry Society." See Special Pulitzers for Letters.
Harriet Monroe, founding publisher and long-time editor of Poetry magazine, wrote in an editorial (Apr.–Sept., 1922), "The award of a Pulitzer Prize of one thousand dollars to the Collected Poems of Edwin Arlington Robinson is a most agreeable surprise, as this is the first Pulitzer Prize ever granted to a poet. Four years ago, when the Poetry Society of America gave its first annual five hundred dollars to Sara Teasdale's Love Songs, the award, being made in conjunction with the Pulitzer prizes, was falsely attributed to the same origin."
Finalists have been announced since 1980, ordinarily two others beside the winner.

Title: Pulitzer Prize for History
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulitzer_Prize_for_History
Summary: The Pulitzer Prize for History, administered by Columbia University, is one of the seven American Pulitzer Prizes that are annually awarded for Letters, Drama, and Music. It has been presented since 1917 for a distinguished book about the history of the United States. Thus it is one of the original Pulitzers, for the program was inaugurated in 1917 with seven prizes, four of which were awarded that year. The Pulitzer Prize program has also recognized some historical work with its Biography prize, from 1917, and its General Nonfiction prize, from 1962.
Finalists have been announced since 1980, ordinarily two others beside the winner.

Title: Pulitzer Prize for Biography
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulitzer_Prize_for_Biography
Summary: The Pulitzer Prize for Biography is one of the seven American Pulitzer Prizes annually awarded for Letters, Drama, and Music. The award honors "a distinguished and appropriately documented biography by an American author." Award winners receive US$15,000.
From 1917 to 2022, this prize was known as the Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography and was awarded to a distinguished biography, autobiography or memoir by an American author or co-authors, published during the preceding calendar year. It is one of the original Pulitzers. The program was inaugurated in 1917 with seven prizes, four of which were awarded that year.

Title: 2024 Pulitzer Prize
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Pulitzer_Prize
Summary: The 2024 Pulitzer Prizes were awarded by the Pulitzer Prize Board for work during the 2023 calendar year on May 6, 2024.