Title: Tylenol
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tylenol
Summary: Tylenol is a brand of medication, advertised for reducing pain, reducing fever, and relieving the symptoms of allergies, cold, cough, headache, and influenza. An active ingredient in these medications is acetaminophen (paracetamol), an analgesic and antipyretic, although other ingredients with significant effects (such as codeine, caffeine or diphenhydramine) are included in some variants. Like the generic names paracetamol and acetaminophen, the brand name Tylenol is derived from a chemical name for the compound, N-acetyl-para-aminophenol.
Tylenol is sold by Kenvue, until 2022 part of Johnson & Johnson.

Title: Aveeno
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aveeno
Summary: Aveeno is an American brand of skin care and hair care products owned by American consumer health company Kenvue. 
The active ingredients in all Aveeno products are colloidal oats or oat extracts—avenanthramides, which have been branded as "active naturals". The brand slogan is "Better Ingredients. Better Skincare: Aveeno." Aveeno offers products to treat skin conditions such as eczema, psoriasis, urushiol-induced contact dermatitis, pruritus ani, chickenpox, hives, and sunburn. 
The name Aveeno is derived from the scientific name for the common oat, Avena sativa which belongs to the family Poaceae.

Title: McNeil Consumer Healthcare
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McNeil_Consumer_Healthcare
Summary: McNeil Consumer Healthcare is an American medicals products company belonging to Kenvue consumer health group. It primarily sells fast-moving consumer goods such as over-the-counter drugs.

Title: Kenvue
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenvue
Summary: Kenvue Inc. is an American consumer health company. Formerly the Consumer Healthcare division of Johnson & Johnson, Kenvue owns well-known brands such as Aveeno, Band-Aid, Benadryl, Zyrtec, Johnson's, Listerine, Lactaid, Mylanta, Neutrogena, Trosyd, Calpol, Tylenol, and Visine. Kenvue is incorporated in Delaware and was originally headquartered in the Skillman section of Montgomery Township, New Jersey, before relocating to Summit, New Jersey.
Johnson & Johnson announced in November 2021 that it would spin off its consumer health division as a separate company. The new company was named Kenvue in September 2022, and its initial public offering took place in May 2023, raising $3.8 billion in the largest U.S. IPO since 2021, with an initial valuation of about $41 billion. Johnson & Johnson initially retained more than 90% ownership before completing a full separation through a share exchange in July 2023. Kenvue was subsequently added to the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats index.
CEO Thibaut Mongon initially led Kenvue, which employed about 22,200 people in 2022. Following Mongon’s termination in 2025, Kirk Perry was named interim CEO. Perry was appointed the company's permanent CEO in November 2025.
The company has also faced controversy, including a securities class action filed in 2023 alleging misleading disclosures regarding risks related to phenylephrine, which led to its stock trading below IPO levels.
On November 3, 2025, Kimberly-Clark announced that it was acquiring Kenvue for a total enterprise value of US$48.7 billion. The acquisition is expected to close around the second half of 2026.

Title: Artisan Partners
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artisan_Partners
Summary: Artisan Partners is an American asset management company headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Outside the United States, the company has offices in Dublin, Hong Kong, London, Singapore and Sydney.