Title: Most (city)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Most_(city)
Summary: Most (Czech pronunciation: [most]; German: Brüx) is a city in the Ústí nad Labem Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 63,000 inhabitants. The city is located on the Bílina River, on the border between the Most Basin and Central Bohemian Uplands.
Most was founded in the 11th century at the latest and became a town in the 13th century. In the 19th century, Most transformed into an industrial city known for lignite mining. Due to mining, the historic city was demolished and replaced by a planned city. In locations where mining has ended, Most is an example of successful landscape revitalisation. Most Lake, created by the flooding of a lignite mine, is the second largest artificial lake in the Czech Republic. The most valuable monument of Most is the Church of the Assumption of the Virgin Mary.

Title: World Tourism rankings
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Tourism_rankings
Summary: The World Tourism rankings are compiled by the United Nations's World Tourism Organization as part of their World Tourism Barometer publication, which is released up to six times per year. It ranks destinations by the number of international visitor arrivals, by the revenue generated by inbound tourism, and by the expenditure of outbound travelers.

Title: International tourism
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_tourism
Summary: International tourism is tourism that crosses national borders. Globalization has made tourism a popular global leisure activity. The World Tourism Organization defines tourists as people "traveling to and staying in places outside their usual environment for not more than one consecutive year for leisure, business and other purposes". The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that up to 500,000 people are in flight at any one time.
In 2010, international tourism reached US$919B, growing 6.5% over 2009, corresponding to an increase in real terms of 4.7%. In 2010, there were over 940 million international tourist arrivals worldwide. By 2016 that number had risen to 1,235 million, producing 1,220  billion USD in destination spending. The COVID-19 crisis had significant negative effects on international tourism significantly slowing the overall increasing trend.
International tourism has significant impacts on the environment, exacerbated in part by the problems created by air travel but also by other issues, including wealthy tourists bringing lifestyles that stress local infrastructure, water and trash systems among others.

Title: List of cities by international visitors
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_by_international_visitors
Summary: This is a list of the top 100 cities ranked by the number of international visitors, including all international arrivals by land, air, and sea, for tourist or business purposes. The consulting firm Euromonitor and the financial services corporation Mastercard define the concept of the foreign visitor differently, thus their respective rankings differ.
Euromonitor counts a visitor as any person visiting a city in another country for at least 24 hours, for a period not exceeding 12 months, and staying in paid or unpaid, collective or private accommodation. Each arrival is counted separately and includes people traveling more than once a year and people visiting several cities during one trip. The growth column compares international arrivals to the previous year.
Mastercard Global Destinations Cities Index counts a visitor only if a person stayed overnight at least once in the city. The income column shows the amount visitors spent in each city. For cities bordering directly on foreign territory, border crossings from country to country are not counted as international visitors.

Title: List of tourist attractions in Riyadh
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tourist_attractions_in_Riyadh
Summary: Riyadh is the capital and largest city of Saudi Arabia. The city has many tourist attractions and received around 19.1 million tourists in 2023. It is the second-most visited city in the country, after Mecca. Before the introduction of tourist visas in 2019, the city received around 5 million tourists each year, making it the forty-ninth most visited city in the world and the 6th in the Middle East. The numbers almost doubled in 2021, with 10.44 million tourists visiting Riyadh in 2021. 
The Kingdom Centre and Al Faisaliah Tower are among the world's most recognizable symbols of Riyadh. Prominent festivals of city that attract visitors include Jenadriyah, Riyadh Season, Riyadh International Book Fair and Noor Riyadh.