Title: 1998 in video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1998_in_video_games
Summary: 1998 saw many sequels and prequels in video games, such as F-Zero X, Marvel vs. Capcom, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Resident Evil 2, Metal Gear Solid, Crash Bandicoot: Warped, Street Fighter Alpha 3, Fallout 2, and Tomb Raider III, along with new titles such as Banjo-Kazooie, Dance Dance Revolution, Half-Life, Radiant Silvergun, Spyro the Dragon, StarCraft and Xenogears. In Japan, Sega released the Dreamcast which was the first console of the sixth generation and also the company's last-ever console.
The year has been retrospectively considered one of the best and most influential in video game history due to the release of numerous critically acclaimed, commercially successful and influential titles across all platforms and genres at the time. The year's best-selling video game console was the PlayStation for the third year in a row. The year's most critically acclaimed title was The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, which remains Metacritic's highest-scoring game of all time. The year's best-selling home video game worldwide was Pokémon Red/Green/Blue/Pikachu for the Game Boy, while the year's highest-grossing arcade game in Japan was Tekken 3.

Title: List of best-selling Nintendo DS video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_Nintendo_DS_video_games
Summary: This is a list of video games for the Nintendo DS video game console that have sold or shipped at least one million copies. The best-selling game on the Nintendo DS is New Super Mario Bros. First released in North America on May 15, 2006, it went on to sell nearly 31 million units worldwide.
There are a total of 76 Nintendo DS games on this list which are confirmed to have sold or shipped at least one million units. Of these, 18 were developed by internal Nintendo development divisions. Of the 76 games on this list, 51 were published in one or more regions by Nintendo.
By September 30, 2022, over 948.76 million total copies of games had been sold for the Nintendo DS. As of March 31, 2025, there are a total of 139 Nintendo DS games that have sold at least one million units.

Title: List of best-selling Game Boy video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_Game_Boy_video_games
Summary: This is a list of video games for the Game Boy and Game Boy Color handheld video game consoles that have sold or shipped at least one million copies. It includes games with publicly available sales figures as well as those that received the Player's Choice label for surpassing one million units sold.
The best-selling title is the first generation of Pokémon (Red/Blue and Yellow), released in 1996, with combined sales of approximately 46 million units worldwide. The second best-selling game is Tetris, originally released in Japan on June 14, 1989. Frequently bundled with the Game Boy, over 35 million copies of Tetris were shipped worldwide.  It is followed by the best-selling Game Boy Color game, the second generation of Pokémon (Gold/Silver and Crystal), which collectively sold 29 million units. Rounding out the top five are Super Mario Land, the first Super Mario title on the platform, with over 18 million units sold, and Dr. Mario, which surpassed 5.34 million copies. The most successful franchises on the Game Boy and Game Boy Color include Pokémon (84.54 million combined units), Tetris (38.12 million), Super Mario (34.39 million), Donkey Kong (12.55 million), and Kirby (10.91 million).
In total, 67 Game Boy and Game Boy Color games have been confirmed to have sold or shipped at least one million units. Of these, 20 were developed by Nintendo's internal studios. Capcom follows with seven million-selling titles, while Game Freak, Rare, and Tose each have five. Other publishers with multiple million-selling games include Konami (three titles) and both Bandai and Enix (two titles each).

Title: List of best-selling GameCube video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_GameCube_video_games
Summary: This is a list of video games for the GameCube video game console that have sold or shipped at least one million copies. The best-selling game on the GameCube is Super Smash Bros. Melee. First released in Japan on November 21, 2001, it went on to sell just over 7.4 million units worldwide. The second best-selling game was Mario Kart: Double Dash, selling 6.88 million units. Super Mario Sunshine is the console's third best-selling game, with 5.91 million units.
There are a total of 36 GameCube games on this list which are confirmed to have sold or shipped at least one million units. Of these, eight were developed by internal Nintendo development divisions. Other developers with the most million-selling titles include Hudson Soft and Namco with four games each, and Capcom with three games. Of the 36 games on this list, 26 were published in one or more regions by Nintendo. Other publishers with multiple million-selling games include Sega with five games, all of which being in the Sonic the Hedgehog franchise, Capcom with three games, and The Pokémon Company with two games. The best-selling franchises on GameCube include Resident Evil (4.2 million combined sales), The Legend of Zelda (5.75 million combined sales), Sonic the Hedgehog (7.1 million combined sales), and most notably Mario (26.68 million combined sales).
By June 30, 2024, 208.58 million total copies of games had been sold for the GameCube. Despite coming in at 3rd place during the 6th generation of video game consoles, it has the highest attach rate of any Nintendo console at 9.59.

Title: List of best-selling video games in the United States by year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_video_games_in_the_United_States_by_year
Summary: This is a listing of the best-selling video games in the United States annually by units sold since 1980, with sales figures from Circana since 1994. The United States is a very competitive market for video game developers. Games from different developers around the world have entered the annual lists of top ten best-selling games in the United States. The most successful developers are mostly from the United States, Japan, Canada, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
Among the forty-three reported annual top-sellers between 1980 and 2024, thirteen were published by Activision Blizzard and another thirteen by Nintendo, four each by Atari and Take-Two Interactive, three by Electronic Arts, and two each by Sega and Acclaim Entertainment. Video game publishers Activision Blizzard and Electronic Arts managed to enter the list of ten best-selling games every single year with at least one of their games for the last fifteen years in a row. Of the twelve best-selling games released in the last fourteen years, twelve were from Call of Duty franchise and published by Activision Blizzard. Madden NFL and the Call of Duty series have been on the annual top ten best-sellers list twelve times over the last thirteen years. Call of Duty has been the best-selling video game series in the US for the past sixteen years.
The Circana lists do not encompass the industry as a whole, as some publishers, developers, and the majority of indie developers do not share data with NPD. Some video games companies also do not share physical games sales and some digital storefront sales such as Steam and Battle.net. Companies that share data with NPD include: Bandai Namco Entertainment, Capcom, Disney Interactive, Embracer Group, Konami, Krafton, Marvelous, NCSoft, Sega, Sony Interactive Entertainment, Square Enix, Take-Two Interactive, Warner Bros. Games, and Wizard of the Coast.
Ubisoft has stopped sharing data with Circana in 2025. Electronic Arts, Microsoft and Nintendo does not share digital sales data with the NPD. Blizzard Entertainment does not share Battle.net sales, and other publishers may not share their data. As a result, some games are underrepresented.