Title: Pantheon, Rome
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pantheon,_Rome
Summary: The Pantheon (UK: , US: ; Latin: Pantheum, from Ancient Greek  Πάνθειον (Pantheion) '[temple] of all the gods') is an ancient temple in Rome, Italy, originally built under emperor Augustus (27 BC–AD 14) and reconstructed under Hadrian (117–138); since AD 609, it is a Catholic church called the Basilica of St. Mary and the Martyrs (Italian: Basilica di Santa Maria ad Martyres). It is perhaps the most famous, and architecturally most influential, rotunda.
The current Pantheon was built on the site of an earlier temple, which had been commissioned by Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa during the reign of Augustus. After the original burnt down, the present building was completed by the emperor Hadrian and probably dedicated c. AD 126. Its date of construction is uncertain, because Hadrian chose to re-inscribe the new temple with Agrippa's original date inscription from the older temple.
The building is round in plan, except for the portico with large granite Corinthian columns (eight in the first rank and two groups of four behind) under a pediment. A rectangular vestibule links the porch to the rotunda, which is under a coffered concrete dome made from Roman concrete (also called opus caementicium), with a central opening (oculus) to the sky. Almost two thousand years after it was built, the Pantheon's dome is still the world's largest unreinforced concrete dome. The height to the oculus and the diameter of the interior circle are the same, 43 metres (142 ft).
It is one of the best-preserved of all Ancient Roman buildings, in large part because it has been in continuous use throughout its history. Since the 7th century, it has been a church dedicated to St. Mary and the Martyrs (Latin: Sancta Maria ad Martyres), known as "Santa Maria Rotonda". The square in front of the Pantheon is called Piazza della Rotonda. The Pantheon is a state property, managed by Italy's Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism through the Polo Museale del Lazio.
The Pantheon's large circular domed cella, with a conventional temple portico front, was unique in Roman architecture. Nevertheless, it became a standard exemplar when classical styles were revived, and has been copied many times by later architects.

Title: List of oldest buildings in the United Kingdom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_oldest_buildings_in_the_United_Kingdom
Summary: This article lists the oldest extant freestanding buildings in the United Kingdom. In order to qualify for the list a structure must:

be a recognisable building
either incorporate features of building work from the claimed date to at least 1.5 metres (4.9 ft) in height and/or be a listed building.
incorporate features of building work of the above nature that date from no later than AD 1300.
Roads are excluded although other structures such as bridges may be included if they otherwise fulfil the above criteria.

Title: List of the oldest synagogues in the United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_the_oldest_synagogues_in_the_United_States
Summary: Synagogues may be considered "oldest" based on different criteria such as oldest surviving building or oldest congregation. Some older synagogue buildings have been in continuous use as synagogues, while others have been converted to other purposes, and a few, such as the Touro Synagogue, were shuttered for many decades. Some early established congregations have been in continuous existence, while other early congregations have ceased to exist.

Title: List of oldest church buildings
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_oldest_church_buildings
Summary: This article lists some but by no means all of the oldest known church buildings in the world. In most instances, buildings listed here were reconstructed numerous times and only fragments of the original buildings have survived. These surviving freestanding buildings were purposely constructed for use by congregations (or used at an early date). The dates are the approximate dates when they were built and/or reconstructed and/or first used by Christian congregations for worship.
The term church may be used in the sense of "Christian denomination" or in the singular as the Christian Church as a whole. The "church" (Greek ekklēsía, 'assembly') is traced to Pentecost and the beginning of the Christian mission in the first century and was not used in reference to a building.
According to the historical Catholic Encyclopedia (published from 1907), the Cenacle, the site of the Last Supper in Jerusalem, was the "first Christian church". The Dura-Europos church in Syria is the oldest surviving church building in the world, while the archaeological remains of both the Aqaba Church and the Megiddo church have been considered to be the world's oldest known purpose-built church, erected in the Roman Empire's administrative Diocese of the East in the 3rd century. Several authors have cited the Etchmiadzin Cathedral (Armenia's mother church) as the oldest cathedral.
St. Thaddeus Monastery or Qara Kelisa (meaning 'black church') in Chaldoran County, Iran is also noted by UNESCO World Heritage Centre as relating to 66 AD: "According to Armenian tradition such a location was chosen because saint Thaddeus built the earliest church—parts of which are still believed to be in place as the base of the old section—upon the ruins of the temple." In 66 AD, he as one of the Apostles and Princess Sandukht (the daughter of the King or daughter of Abbot Simeon) and other Thaddeus' devotees were tortured and executed by Armenia's King Sanatrouk or Sanadruk.

Title: List of oldest extant buildings
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_oldest_extant_buildings
Summary: This is a list of oldest extant buildings.