Title: Golden State Warriors
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_State_Warriors
Summary: The Golden State Warriors are an American professional basketball team based in San Francisco. The Warriors compete in the National Basketball Association (NBA) as a member of the Pacific Division of the Western Conference. Founded in 1946 in Philadelphia, the Warriors moved to the San Francisco Bay Area in 1962 and took the city's name before changing its geographic moniker to Golden State in 1971. The team plays its home games at Chase Center.
The Warriors won the inaugural Basketball Association of America (BAA) championship in 1947, and won again in 1956, led by Hall of Fame trio Paul Arizin, Tom Gola, and Neil Johnston. After the trade of star Wilt Chamberlain in January 1965, the team finished the 1964–65 season with the NBA's worst record (17–63). Their rebuilding period was brief, however, as they drafted Rick Barry four months after the trade. Barry, along with Jamaal Wilkes, powered the Warriors to their third championship in 1975, widely considered one of the biggest upsets in NBA history.
The team struggled in the 1980s, then became playoff regulars at the turn of the decade with stars Tim Hardaway, Mitch Richmond, and Chris Mullin, nicknamed "Run TMC". Led by Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson, and Draymond Green, the team returned to championship glory in 2015. In 2016, the Warriors achieved the best-ever regular-season record at 73–9 before losing the Finals to the Cleveland Cavaliers in seven games after surrendering a 3–1 series lead. After signing former MVP Kevin Durant, the team won back-to-back championships in 2017 and 2018. They lost the 2019 Finals to the Toronto Raptors and Durant left that off-season. After missing the playoffs the next two seasons, the Warriors returned to the playoffs and defeated the Boston Celtics in the 2022 Finals.
Nicknamed the "Dubs" as a shortening of "W's", the Warriors hold several NBA records: best regular season, most wins in a season (regular season and postseason combined), and best postseason run. Curry and Thompson are generally considered one of the greatest backcourts of all time. The Warriors rank third for the most NBA championships and Finals appearances in NBA history, trailing only the Los Angeles Lakers and Boston Celtics. Chamberlain and Curry are the only players in franchise history to win the league MVP award, for a total of three awards.

Title: List of current NBA head coaches
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_current_NBA_head_coaches
Summary: This list includes the date of hiring and the performance record of National Basketball Association (NBA) head coaches. The league consists of 30 teams, of which 29 are located in the United States and one in Canada. In the NBA, a head coach is the highest ranking coach of a coaching staff.
Erik Spoelstra has served as head coach of the Miami Heat since the 2008–09 season and is currently the NBA's longest-tenured coach. Amongst the active NBA head coaches, Rick Carlisle has coached, won, and lost the most games.
Mike Brown, Mark Daigneault, Steve Kerr, Joe Mazzulla, and Spoelstra have won NBA championships with their current teams, while Carlisle, Tyronn Lue, and Nick Nurse have won with their former teams. As of May 2026, 17 coaches have spent their entire NBA head coaching career with their current team.

Title: List of current NCAA Division I FBS football coaches
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_current_NCAA_Division_I_FBS_football_coaches
Summary: The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) includes 138 teams. Each team has one head coach. In addition to the head coach, most teams also have at least one offensive coordinator and defensive coordinator; however, the head coach will sometimes assume one of these roles as well. FBS is composed of ten conferences: American Conference (American), Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC), Big 12 Conference,  Big Ten Conference, Conference USA (CUSA), Mid-American Conference (MAC), Mountain West Conference (MW), Pac-12 Conference (Pac-12), Southeastern Conference (SEC), and Sun Belt Conference (SBC). All FBS schools except two (UConn & Notre Dame) are members of one of these conferences.
In 2019, Kirk Ferentz of Iowa became the longest-continuous tenured head coach in Division I FBS. Ferentz began his current coaching tenure in 1999 and is the only FBS head coach who began his current head coaching position before the 2000 season. Three coaches had a previous head coaching stint at their current school: Greg Schiano at Rutgers (2001–2011, 2020–present),  Scott Frost at  UCF (2016–2018, 2025–present), and Rich Rodriguez at West Virginia (2001–2007, 2025–present).
Coaches' records updated through week 2 of the 2026 college football season.

Title: List of Golden State Warriors head coaches
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Golden_State_Warriors_head_coaches
Summary: The Golden State Warriors are an American professional basketball team based in San Francisco, California. The franchise had been known as the Philadelphia Warriors and the San Francisco Warriors, due to it previously being based in or near those cities. The team is a member of the Pacific Division of the Western Conference in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The Warriors initially joined the Basketball Association of America (BAA) as the Philadelphia Warriors in 1946, and won the first BAA championship title in the same year under coach Eddie Gottlieb. The Warriors later joined the NBA at its foundation in 1949. The Warriors' record was 26–42 in their first NBA season and lost in the first round of the playoffs to the Syracuse Nationals. Franklin Mieuli and the Diners Club put together a group of 40 local investors to move the Warriors to San Francisco before the 1962–63 NBA season, with Mieuli eventually buying all the shares of the franchise to keep the team from collapsing and to keep it in the area. The team became the Golden State Warriors and moved to Oakland before the 1971–72 NBA season.
There have been 25 head coaches for the Warriors franchise. The franchise won their first NBA championship as the Philadelphia Warriors in the 1956 NBA Finals, and were coached by George Senesky. Their second title was won as the Golden State Warriors in 1975, under coach Al Attles, who played with and coached the Warriors for 25 seasons. He was also the franchise's all-time leader in regular season games coached and wins until March 2025 when his record was surpassed by Steve Kerr, who coached the Warriors to four championships in 2015, 2017, 2018 and 2022. Kerr also leads the franchise in winning percentage for games coached, as well as playoff games coached and wins.
Frank McGuire is one of the members of the franchise that has been inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame as coaches, while being the only one to do so that has spent his whole career with the franchise. Alex Hannum, Don Nelson, and Bill Sharman are the only other members of the franchise that have been inducted into the Hall of Fame. Hannum,  Nelson, and Kerr have both received the NBA Coach of the Year award once. Nelson has also been named one of the top 10 coaches in NBA history. Four former players for the Warriors, Attles, Johnston, George Lee, and Senesky went on to coach for the franchise.

Title: History of the Golden State Warriors
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_Golden_State_Warriors
Summary: The history of the Golden State Warriors began in Philadelphia in 1946. In 1962, the franchise was relocated to San Francisco, California and became known as the San Francisco Warriors until 1971, when its name was changed to the current Golden State Warriors. Along with their inaugural championship win in the 1946–47 season, the Warriors have won six others in the team's history, including another in Philadelphia after the 1955–56 season, and five more as Golden State after the 1974–75, 2014–15, 2016–17, 2017–18 and 2021–22 seasons.