Title: Call of Duty (video game)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty_(video_game)
Summary: Call of Duty is a 2003 first-person shooter game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. It is the first installment in the Call of Duty franchise, released on October 29, 2003, for Microsoft Windows. The game simulates infantry and combined arms warfare of World War II using a modified version of the id Tech 3 engine. Much of its theme and gameplay is similar to the Medal of Honor series; however, Call of Duty showcases multiple viewpoints staged in the American, British, and Soviet campaigns of World War II in Europe.
The game introduced a new take on AI-controlled allies who support the player during missions and react to situational changes during gameplay. This led to a greater emphasis on squad-based play as opposed to the "lone wolf" approach often portrayed in earlier first-person shooter games. Much of Infinity Ward's development team consisted of members who helped develop Medal of Honor: Allied Assault. On release, the game received universal acclaim and won several Game of the Year awards. Retrospective assessments have been less favorable, with many critics saying the game aged poorly; it has placed low in lists ranking the series' games.
In September 2004, an expansion pack called Call of Duty: United Offensive, which was produced by Activision and developed by Gray Matter Studios and Pi Studios, was released. At the same time, the N-Gage version received an arena pack with three new levels. An enhanced port of Call of Duty for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, titled Call of Duty: Classic, developed by Aspyr, was released worldwide in November 2009 with the release of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, being available via redemption codes included with the "Hardened" and "Prestige" editions of the game.

Title: Call of Duty
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty
Summary: Call of Duty (CoD) is a first-person shooter video game series and media franchise published by Activision, starting in 2003. The games were first developed by Infinity Ward, then by Treyarch, Sledgehammer Games and Raven Software. Several spin-off and handheld games were made by other developers. The most recent game, Call of Duty: Black Ops 7, was released on November 14, 2025. The next game, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 4, is scheduled for release on October 23, 2026.
The series originally focused on a World War II setting, with Infinity Ward developing Call of Duty (2003) and Call of Duty 2 (2005) and Treyarch developing Call of Duty 3 (2006). Infinity Ward's Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (2007) introduced a modern setting and proved to be the breakthrough title for the series, creating the Modern Warfare sub-series; a Modern Warfare remastered version was released in 2016. Two other entries, Modern Warfare 2 (2009) and Modern Warfare 3 (2011), were made. The sub-series received a reboot with Modern Warfare in 2019, Modern Warfare II in 2022, and Modern Warfare III in 2023. Infinity Ward has developed two games outside of the Modern Warfare sub-series, Ghosts (2013) and Infinite Warfare (2016).
Treyarch made one last World War II-based game, World at War (2008), before releasing Black Ops (2010) and subsequently creating the Black Ops sub-series. Six more entries, Black Ops II (2012), Black Ops III (2015), Black Ops 4 (2018), Black Ops Cold War (2020), Black Ops 6 (2024), and Black Ops 7 (2025) were made, the latter three in conjunction with Raven Software. Sledgehammer Games, which were co-developers for Modern Warfare 3, have developed three titles, Advanced Warfare (2014), WWII (2017), and Vanguard (2021). They are the lead developer for Modern Warfare III (2023), the third entry in the Modern Warfare reboot sub-series.
As of October 2023, Call of Duty has sold over 500 million copies and has 100 million monthly active players across all platforms. The franchise generated $30 billion in revenue by 2022. The series is verified by the Guinness World Records as the best-selling first-person shooter game series. It is the most successful video game franchise created in the United States and the fourth best-selling video game franchise of all time. Other products in the franchise include a line of action figures designed by Plan B Toys, a card game created by Upper Deck Company, Mega Bloks sets by Mega Brands, and a comic book miniseries published by WildStorm Productions, and a feature film in development by Paramount Pictures, set to be released in 2028.

Title: Call of Duty: Black Ops
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Black_Ops
Summary: Call of Duty: Black Ops is a 2010 first-person shooter game developed by Treyarch and published by Activision. It was released worldwide in November 2010 for Microsoft Windows, the PlayStation 3, Wii, and Xbox 360, with a separate version for Nintendo DS developed by n-Space. Aspyr later ported the game to Mac OS X in September 2012. Ports for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5, developed by Iron Galaxy Studios, were released on July 9, 2026. It is the seventh title in the Call of Duty series and a sequel to Call of Duty: World at War.
Set in the 1960s during the Cold War, the game's single-player campaign follows CIA operative Alex Mason as he attempts to recall specific memories to locate a numbers station set to instruct Soviet sleeper agents to deploy chemical weapons across the United States. Locations featured in the game include Cuba, the Soviet Union, the United States, South Vietnam, Hong Kong, Canada, and Laos. The multiplayer component of Black Ops features multiple objective-based game modes that are playable on 14 different maps included with the game. Improvements to loadout options and 
killstreak rewards are made. A form of virtual currency, COD Points, allows players to purchase weapons and customization options for their in-game character, as well as attachments and customization options for their weapon.
Development for the game began in 2009. Whereas Treyarch worked on both World at War and the tie-in video game for the James Bond film Quantum of Solace simultaneously, they focused specifically on Black Ops during this development cycle. Different teams within Treyarch focused on a certain game mode. Black Ops runs an enhanced version of the IW 3.0 engine used in World at War. The improvements made allowed for bigger campaign levels to be made as well as enhanced lighting. Music was composed by Sean Murray, with licensed music by the Rolling Stones, Creedence Clearwater Revival, and Eminem appearing in the game. Avenged Sevenfold also recorded an original song for the game as well. The marketing of the game began in April 2010.
The game received positive reviews from critics with praise for its story, voice-acting, darker tone and multiplayer modes, although some criticized it for its linear gameplay and technical issues. It is retrospectively considered one of the series' best games. Among other awards and nominations, Call of Duty: Black Ops was nominated for Game of the Year by numerous media outlets and award shows, including the Interactive Achievement Awards, British Academy Games Awards, and Spike Video Game Awards. Within 24 hours of going on sale, the game had sold more than 5.6 million copies, breaking the record set by its predecessor Modern Warfare 2 by some 2.3 million copies. The game had sold over 25 million copies worldwide, making it, at the time, the best selling game of all time in the United States, and it remains one of the best-selling games of all time. A sequel, Call of Duty: Black Ops II, was released in 2012. Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War, set between Black Ops and Black Ops II, was released in 2020.

Title: Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Infinite_Warfare
Summary: Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare is a 2016 first-person shooter game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. It is the thirteenth installment in the Call of Duty series and was released worldwide for PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One on November 4, 2016.
Development of Infinite Warfare began during 2014. It is the first title by Infinity Ward under the new three-year development cycle for the Call of Duty series. The game's campaign is centered around a war for the Solar System, which the Settlement Defense Front (SDF), a hostile force who are the main antagonists, are attempting to take over. The player takes control of Lieutenant Nick Reyes of the Special Combat Air Recon (SCAR). They have their own transforming fighter, named "Jackal", that they can customize as well as a central hub ship named Retribution.
Infinite Warfare's announcement trailer was noted for its strong negative reaction; at the time, it was the second-most disliked video on YouTube. Commentators attributed this to Call of Duty fans expressing frustration at the sci-fi direction the series had taken, specifically that the game and its predecessors had futuristic settings. Special editions of Infinite Warfare were released with a remastered version of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, titled Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered.
The game received generally positive reviews upon release, receiving praise for its gameplay, characters, and Zombies mode, but criticism for its multiplayer mode, while its single-player campaign received mixed opinions. Nevertheless, retrospective reviewers have praised the campaign as one of Call of Duty's finest, while criticizing the multiplayer mode. It has generally been placed below the top 10 on lists ranking the series' games. It was named as Best Shooter at E3 by Game Informer and was nominated for several awards. While Infinite Warfare underperformed in sales compared to previous Call of Duty titles, it was both the top-selling game in the US and UK in November 2016.

Title: Call of Duty: Black Ops 7
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_of_Duty:_Black_Ops_7
Summary: Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 is a 2025 first-person shooter video game co-developed by Treyarch and Raven Software and published by Activision. It is the twenty-second main installment of the Call of Duty series and is the eighth entry in the Black Ops sub-series, following Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 (2024). Set in 2035, Black Ops 7's story—playable in co-op or single-player—follows a JSOC unit led by David Mason as they investigate the apparent return of deceased terrorist Raul Menendez. As with previous Call of Duty titles, the game also includes a multiplayer component and the cooperative round-based Zombies mode.
Development on Black Ops 7 took place concurrently with the production of Black Ops 6, with both games being green-lit at the same time. Marketing for the title began in June 2025 with the release of a cinematic trailer during the 2025 Xbox Games Showcase event; a full reveal debuted on August 19, at Gamescom. Black Ops 7 was released on November 14, 2025, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. It received mixed reviews from critics and a negative response from players, with the game being the subject of review bombing on Metacritic. The title ranked as the fifth best-selling game in the United States for 2025, the lowest end-of-year ranking for a Call of Duty release since 2008.