Title: KAIST
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KAIST
Summary: KAIST (originally the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology) is a national research university located in Daedeok Innopolis, Daejeon, South Korea. KAIST was established by the Korean government in 1971 as the nation's first public, research-oriented science and engineering institution. KAIST has 10,504 full-time students and 1,342 faculty researchers (as of the Fall 2019 Semester) and had a total budget of US$765 million in 2013, of which US$459 million was from research contracts.
In 2007, KAIST first began partnering with international institutions to adopt dual degree programs for its students. The current list of partner institutions includes New York University, the Technical University of Denmark, Carnegie Mellon University, the Georgia Institute of Technology, Technische Universität Berlin, and the Technical University of Munich.

Title: Middle school
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Middle_school
Summary: Middle school, also known as intermediate school, senior public school, junior high school, junior secondary school, or lower secondary school, is an educational stage between primary school and secondary school.

Title: Korea University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Korea_University
Summary: Korea University (KU; Korean: 고려대학교) is a private research university in Seoul, South Korea. Korea University also maintains a satellite campus in Sejong City. Established in 1905 as Bosung College by Lee Yong-Ik, a prominent official of the Korean Empire, Korea University is among South Korea's oldest institutions of higher education, and is the nation's first modern private university. It is named after Goguryeo, an ancient Korean kingdom. Korea University is one of the three most prestigious universities in the country, part of a group referred to as SKY universities.
The student body consists of over 28,000 undergraduate students and over 11,000 graduate students. Korea University offers programs in fields such as liberal arts, social sciences, business & economics, and engineering. It has 81 departments in 19 colleges and divisions. It is composed of twenty-two graduate schools as well as eighteen undergraduate schools and colleges. There are eleven auxiliary facilities, including libraries, a museum, and a press office for public relations. It has over 1,500 full-time faculty members with over 95% of them holding Ph.D. or equivalent qualification in their field. The university has produced more than 350,000 graduates, while The Korea University Alumni Association comprises more than 280,000 members.
Korea University's collegiate athletic teams, known as the KU Tigers, compete in the U-League, South Korea's collegiate athletic association, and have been one the most successful programs in college athletics. The university operates multiple athletic clubs and fields teams in sports such as basketball, association football, American football, ice hockey, baseball, and rugby, many of which have origins dating back to the early 20th century. The KU Tiger teams have won multiple national championships across a variety of sports, including basketball, baseball, and association football.

Title: Park Won-soon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Won-soon
Summary: Park Won-soon (Korean: 박원순; February 11, 1955 or March 26, 1956 – July 9, 2020) was a South Korean politician, lawyer and activist who served as the mayor of Seoul from 2011 until his death in 2020. A member of the Democratic Party of Korea, he was the longest-serving mayor of Seoul. He died by suicide in July 2020 following allegations of sexual harassment.
Prior to being elected as mayor, Park was a community and social justice activist, serving as a member of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. He wrote many books on transitional justice as international human rights lawyer and worked as the chief prosecutor for both North and South Korea for the first time in The Women's International War Crimes Tribunal on Japan's Military Sexual Slavery accusing the Showa Emperor. A noted political donor in Seoul, Park contributed to political organizations and think tanks that advocated for grassroots solutions towards social, educational, environmental, and political issues. As a mayor of Seoul, he was awarded for the first time in South Korea,  Gothenburg Award for Sustainable Development for 'sharing city' and Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize, Singapore for changing the city into an inclusive, socially stable and innovative city.
In July 2020, Park's former secretary accused him of four years of sexual harassment; Park died the next day, in an apparent suicide.

Title: Son Jong-won
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Son_Jong-won
Summary: Son Jong-won (Korean: 손종원; born March 19, 1984) is a South Korean chef known for leading L'Amant Secret and Eatanic Garden, two one-Michelin-starred restaurants in Seoul. He is a regular chef cast on Please Take Care of My Refrigerator and participated as a White Spoon competitor on Culinary Class Wars Season 2.