Title: Paris
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paris
Summary: Paris is the capital and largest city of France, with an estimated city population of 2.04 million in an area of 105.4 km2 (40.7 sq mi), as of January 2026, and a metropolitan population of 13.3 million (2023). Located on the river Seine in the centre of the Île-de-France region, it is the largest metropolitan area and fourth-most populous city in the European Union (EU). Paris is nicknamed the "City of Light", partly because of its role in the Age of Enlightenment.
Administratively, Paris is divided into twenty arrondissements (districts), each having their own cultural identity. Haussmann's renovation of Paris, which created new boulevards, parks, and public works, gave birth to a modern city known as the "capital of the 19th century". Paris is a major railway, motorway, and air-transport hub; in 2024 Charles de Gaulle Airport was the EU's busiest airport. Paris has one of the most sustainable transportation systems in the world and is one of only two cities that have received the Sustainable Transport Award twice. Its Art Nouveau-decorated Métro has become a symbol of the city. Paris is known for its museums and architectural landmarks: the Musée d'Orsay, Musée Marmottan Monet, and Musée de l'Orangerie are noted for their collections of French Impressionist art, while the Musée National d'Art Moderne, Musée Rodin, and Musée Picasso are noted for their collections of modern and contemporary art. Parts of the city along the Seine have been designated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1991.
The president of France and both houses of the French Parliament sit in Paris. Paris is home to several United Nations organisations, including UNESCO, as well as other international organisations such as the OECD, the International Bureau of Weights and Measures (in neighbouring Saint-Cloud), the International Energy Agency, the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie, the International Federation for Human Rights, and the Fédération internationale de l'Automobile, along with European bodies such as the European Space Agency, the European Banking Authority, and the European Securities and Markets Authority. The city hosts many sporting events, such as the French Open, and is the home of the association football club Paris Saint-Germain and the rugby union club Stade Français. Paris has also hosted the Summer Olympics three times, in 1900, 1924 and 2024.

Title: Mayor
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor
Summary: In many countries, a mayor is the highest-ranking official in a municipal government such as that of a city or a town. Worldwide, there is a wide variance in local laws and customs regarding the powers and responsibilities of a mayor as well as the means by which a mayor is elected or otherwise mandated. Depending on the system chosen, a mayor may be the chief executive officer of the municipal government, may simply chair a multi-member governing body with little or no independent power, or may play a solely ceremonial role. A mayor's duties and responsibilities may be to appoint and oversee municipal managers and employees, provide basic governmental services to constituents, and execute the laws and ordinances passed by a municipal governing body (or mandated by a state, territorial or national governing
body). Options for selection of a mayor include direct election by the public, or selection by an elected governing council or board.
The term mayor shares a linguistic origin with the military rank of major, both ultimately derived from French majeur, which in turn derives from Latin maior, the comparative form of the adjective magnus.

Title: Council of Paris
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Council_of_Paris
Summary: The Council of Paris (French: Conseil de Paris, [kɔ̃sɛj d(ə) paʁi]) is the deliberative body responsible for governing Paris, the capital of France. It possesses both the powers of a municipal council (conseil municipal) for the commune de Paris and those of a departmental council (conseil départemental) for the département de Paris, as defined by the so-called PLM Law (Loi PLM) of 1982 that redefined the governance of Paris, Lyon and Marseille (hence the PLM acronym). Strictly speaking, the Council of Paris is considered a municipal council rather than a departmental one, as it follows the electoral law and election timing of municipal councils and its presiding officer is called "Mayor" rather than "President of the Council of Paris". Paris is the only territorial collectivity in France to be both a commune and a département.
The Mayor of Paris presides over the Council of Paris and therefore holds the powers of mayor and of president of the departmental council. There are currently 163 councillors for Paris.

Title: Jeanne d'Hauteserre
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeanne_d%27Hauteserre
Summary: Jeanne d'Hauteserre (born 28 July 1953) is a French politician of the Republicans (LR) who served as the current mayor of the 8th arrondissement of Paris from 2014 to 2026.
Ahead of the Republicans' 2016 presidential primary, d'Hauteserre endorsed Nicolas Sarkozy as the party's candidate for the 2017 French presidential election.

Title: List of LGBTQ politicians in France
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_LGBTQ_politicians_in_France
Summary: This is a list of lesbian, gay, and bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people who have served in various institutions of the government of France at the national and sub-national levels.