Trap is a 2024 American thriller film produced, written, and directed by M. Night Shyamalan. The film stars Josh Hartnett, Ariel Donoghue, Shyamalan's daughter Saleka Night, Hayley Mills, and Alison Pill. The film follows Cooper Abbott, a serial killer known as the Butcher, who attends a concert with his teenage daughter Riley, only to discover the event has been intercepted by police who have been tipped off that he would be present.
The film was shot in Canada in late 2023. It premiered in New York City on July 24, 2024, and was theatrically released in the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures on August 2, 2024. It received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $83 million on a $30 million budget.


== Plot ==
Philadelphia firefighter Cooper Abbott takes his teenage daughter, Riley, to pop star Lady Raven's concert as a reward for her good grades. Noticing the unusually high police presence around the concert venue, Cooper learns from a vendor named Jamie that the FBI has learned a serial killer named "the Butcher" will be in attendance. Cooper, who is revealed to be the Butcher, secretly checks footage on his phone of his latest captive victim, Spencer, whom he is holding in a basement. He steals Jamie's ID card and learns the passphrase that will identify him as an employee, using the card to gain access to a back room and steal a police radio.
Hearing a woman predicting his movements over the radio, Cooper sets off an explosion in a food stand's kitchen and uses the chaos to access the roof, where he learns from a police officer that the manhunt is led by Dr. Josephine Grant, an FBI profiler. Confused by Cooper's behavior, Riley asks him to stay with her. She says she hopes to be chosen as Lady Raven's "Dreamer Girl", who gets to dance on stage with the singer and receives backstage access. Believing the backstage exit is not covered by the police, Cooper meets Lady Raven's uncle, one of the spotters, and lies to him that Riley recently recovered from leukemia, leading to her selection as the "Dreamer Girl".
After the concert ends, Cooper learns that the police are also guarding the backstage exit. He privately reveals himself as the Butcher to Lady Raven, threatening to kill Spencer remotely if she does not escort him and Riley out in her limousine. She complies but asks to come to Riley's house, where she stalls for time by explaining the FBI operation to the family, unsettling Cooper by describing Grant's profile of him as someone with maternal issues and obsessive–compulsive disorder. She also explains that the police discovered details about the Butcher's attendance at the concert via a torn ticket receipt left in a vacant house that was reported anonymously.
Lady Raven steals Cooper's phone and locks herself in the bathroom. She obtains details from Spencer about where he was taken and livestreams it to her fans, one of whom finds and rescues him. She reveals Cooper's identity as the Butcher to his wife Rachel, and he locks his family upstairs while Lady Raven texts her driver to contact the police. Cooper attempts to drive off with Lady Raven, but Cooper's family escapes and distracts him long enough for her to flee into her limousine. The police arrive and Cooper flees the house through a secret tunnel before disguising himself using a SWAT uniform and driving the limousine off with Lady Raven. After he reveals his identity, she unlocks the window and incites a mob of fans to swarm the car so the FBI can catch up. Cooper changes into a fresh set of civilian clothes and gets away.
Cooper returns home and confronts Rachel. Rachel confesses that she suspected he was the Butcher, left the receipt in the vacant house for the police to find, and reported it. Cooper decides to kill her and then himself, but Rachel persuades him to share some leftover pie she made for Riley. After Cooper expresses his rage at Rachel for causing him to miss seeing his children grow up, he realizes Rachel drugged the pie with pills from his tool bag, causing him to hallucinate his mother expressing pride in him for feeling a real emotion. He is captured by Grant and two SWAT officers as he walks up to her. As he is led away, he stops to adjust Riley's bicycle and shares a tearful embrace with her before being loaded into a police van. In the back of the van, Cooper unlocks his cuffs with a spoke he secretly took from Riley's bike and laughs to himself.
Later, Jamie is shocked to find out that Cooper was the Butcher while watching the news, after exclaiming that he had helped him. He vows not to talk to anyone at work anymore.


== Cast ==


== Production ==


=== Development and pre-production ===

In October 2022, Universal Pictures announced a then-untitled film from filmmaker M. Night Shyamalan. In February 2023, the film was revealed to be titled Trap when it changed distributor, as Shyamalan and his production company Blinding Edge Pictures entered a first-look deal with Warner Bros. Pictures. The film sprouted from conversations Shyamalan had with his daughter, singer-songwriter Saleka, about combining the concert and theatrical experience and devising an album for a narrative, similar to how Prince wrote the titular album for the 1984 musical film Purple Rain. Shyamalan initially planned to let another filmmaker write the script and direct the film from his original idea for a thriller set at a concert, before changing his mind after realizing he could make the film with Saleka.
The premise was inspired in part by Operation Flagship, a 1985 sting operation in which disguised law enforcement arrested 101 wanted fugitives at a convention center, having invited them under the pretense of gifting them free NFL tickets and an opportunity to win an all-expenses-paid trip to Super Bowl XX. Shyamalan pitched Trap as setting The Silence of the Lambs (1991) at a Taylor Swift concert, in reference to her Eras Tour, and wrote the screenplay in five-and-a-half months, a personal record for him. He produc