Title: European Cup and UEFA Champions League records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Cup_and_UEFA_Champions_League_records_and_statistics
Summary: This page details statistics of all seasons of the European Cup and Champions League. These statistics do not include the qualifying rounds of the UEFA Champions League, unless otherwise noted.

Title: League of Legends World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/League_of_Legends_World_Championship
Summary: The League of Legends World Championship (commonly abbreviated as Worlds) is the annual professional League of Legends world championship tournament hosted by Riot Games and is the culmination of each season. Teams compete for the champion title, the 22-pound (10-kilogram) Summoner's Cup, and a multi-million-dollar championship prize. In 2018, the final was watched by 99.6 million people, breaking 2017's final's viewer record. The tournament has been praised for its ceremonial performances, while receiving attention worldwide due to its dramatic and emotional nature.
The League of Legends World Championships has gained success and popularity, making it among the world's most watched tournaments, as well as the most watched esports event in the world.
The tournament rotates its venues across different major countries and regions each year, with the next edition set to take place in the United States. South Korea's T1 is the most successful team in the tournament's history, having won six world championships.

Title: League of Legends EMEA Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/League_of_Legends_EMEA_Championship
Summary: The League of Legends EMEA Championship (LEC) is the professional League of Legends esports league run by Riot Games in the EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) region, in which ten teams compete. Each annual season is divided into three splits: Winter, Spring and Summer. At the end of the season, the top performing teams qualify for various international events: the First Stand Tournament by winning the LEC Versus tournament, the Mid-Season Invitational (MSI) for the top two teams of the Spring Split, the League of Legends World Championship for the top three teams of Summer Split. The LEC represents the highest level of League of Legends play in the EMEA region.
With the exception of some touring events, all games of the LEC are played live at the Riot Games Arena in Adlershof, Berlin, Germany. In addition to a small studio audience, all games are streamed live in several languages on Twitch and YouTube, with broadcasts regularly attracting over 300,000 viewers.
The popularity and success of the LEC has attracted significant media attention. On 30 September 2016, the French Senate unanimously adopted the last version of the Law for a Digital Republic, significantly improving the visa process for LEC players and esports athletes in general, giving a legal framework to esports contracts, introducing mechanisms to ensure payment of cash prizes, specifying rights for minor esport athletes, and more. A few months before, France also introduced a new esports federation, "France Esports", which has the duty to be a representative body of esports towards the government and serve as a "partner of the French National Olympic and Sports Committee for all matters relating to the recognition of electronic sports as sport in itself". Spain did the same in November 2016, creating the Spanish Federation of Video Games and Esports Spanish Federation of Video Games and Esports. The LEC has attracted sponsorships from LG UltraGear, Kia, Red Bull, and Erste Group.
Fnatic is the only team remaining that has played in every split since the inaugural 2013 Spring Split. G2 Esports is the team with the most champion titles, with 18 in total.

Title: League of Legends in esports
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/League_of_Legends_in_esports
Summary: League of Legends esports is the professional competition of the multiplayer online battle arena video game League of Legends. The game, released in 2009, was the first to be developed and published by Riot Games. Esports tournaments for the game began as early as 2010, most notably with the 2010 World Cyber Games when it was featured as a promotion game. In 2011, the first edition of the League of Legends World Championship was held at DreamHack in Jönköping, Sweden, which was won by Fnatic.
League of Legends is one of the largest esports with various annual tournaments taking place worldwide. In terms of esports professional gaming as of June 2016, League of Legends has had US$29,203,916 in prize money, 4,083 Players, and 1,718 tournaments, compared to Dota 2's US$64,397,286 of prize money, 1,495 players, and 613 tournaments.
Former League Championship Series commissioner Chris Greeley is the current Global Head of League of Legends Esports (LoL Esports) for Riot Games since 2024.

Title: 2022 League of Legends World Championship final
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_League_of_Legends_World_Championship_final
Summary: The 2022 League of Legends World Championship final was a League of Legends (LoL) esports series between T1 and DRX on 5 November 2022 at the Chase Center in San Francisco, California, United States. It marked the twelfth final of a LoL World Championship. Both T1 and DRX were two of four representatives from the League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) at the tournament, the others being Gen.G and DWG KIA. It was T1's first appearance in the final since the 2017 edition and the first time a play-in team made a tournament run to the final, with DRX starting their tournament from the play-in stage as the LCK's fourth seed, barely qualifying through the regional qualifiers.
The series was a best of five and was played in front of 18,000 spectators, with 5.1 million concurrent peak viewers, which was the highest in the tournament's history at the time. The series ended 3–2 in favor of DRX after a back-and-forth five-game series, and was considered the completion of a Cinderella run by commentators, with many regarding it as one of the greatest finals in the history of League of Legends.
DRX's top laner Hwang "Kingen" Seong-hoon earned Most Valuable Player honors. The series marked the first international victory for DRX and support Cho "BeryL" Geon-hee's second world championship, making him one of the two active players alongside Lee "Faker" Sang-hyeok, who also played in the series in his fifth finals appearance, to have more than one world championship after winning the title with DWG KIA in 2020. It also marked the first world championship for ADC Kim "Deft" Hyuk-kyu, who was reportedly in his final year of professional play before eventually deciding to continue playing for two more seasons before entering mandatory military service in South Korea, and his second international title after winning the 2015 Mid-Season Invitational with Edward Gaming, whom DRX also faced en route to the finals and were the defending champions heading into Worlds.