Title: Indiana University Bloomington
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indiana_University_Bloomington
Summary: Indiana University Bloomington (IU Bloomington, Indiana University, IU, IUB, or Indiana) is a public research university in Bloomington, Indiana, United States. It is the flagship campus of Indiana University and is its largest campus, with over 48,000 students. Established as the state's seminary in 1820, the name was changed to "Indiana College" in 1829 and to "Indiana University" in 1838.
Indiana University is a member of the Association of American Universities and is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research spending and doctorate production". Its schools and programs include the Jacobs School of Music, Kelley School of Business, School of Education, Luddy School of Informatics, O'Neill School of Public and Environmental Affairs, School of Public Health, School of Medicine, School of Nursing, Hutton Honors College, Media School, and Maurer School of Law. The campus also features the Lilly Library, Eskenazi Museum of Art, and Indiana Memorial Union.
Indiana athletic teams compete in NCAA Division I and are known as the Indiana Hoosiers. The university is a member of the Big Ten Conference. All teams are known simply as the "Hoosiers", and the Bison mascot, also called "Hoosier", was reintroduced for the 2025 season. The Indiana Hoosiers have won 24 NCAA national championships and one Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW) national championship, in addition to 145 NCAA individual national championships. Titles won by teams include eight by the Hoosiers men's soccer team, a record-setting six straight in men's swimming and diving, five by the Hoosiers men's basketball team, three in men's cross country, one in men's track and field, one in wrestling, and one in football.

Title: St. Catherine University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._Catherine_University
Summary: St. Catherine University (St. Kate's) is a private Catholic university in Saint Paul, Minnesota, United States. It was established as one of the first institutions of higher learning specifically for women in the Midwest and was known as the College of St. Catherine until 2009. St. Kate's offers baccalaureate programs for women as well as graduate and associate programs for women and men.
The university averages an enrollment of about 3,700 students annually. It focuses on recruiting and enrolling minority students and non-traditional aged students. St. Catherine's Weekend College—now College for Adults—was the second such program in the nation and the first in the Upper Midwest. St. Kate's was also the first private college in the nation to launch an effort to attract, welcome, and retain Hmong students, making it home to one of the largest populations of Hmong scholars in the nation.

Title: Columbia University School of the Arts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbia_University_School_of_the_Arts
Summary: The Columbia University School of the Arts (also known as School of the Arts or SoA) is the fine arts graduate school of Columbia University in Morningside Heights, New York. It offers Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degrees in Film, Visual Arts, Theatre and Writing, as well as the Master of Arts (MA) degree in Film Studies. It also works closely with the Arts Initiative at Columbia University (CUArts) and organizes the Columbia University Film Festival (CUFF), a week-long program of screenings, screenplay, and teleplay readings.
Founded in 1965, the school is one of the leading institutions for the study of visual, performing, and literary arts in the United States. Among the school's distinguished graduates are sculptors David Altmejd and Banks Violette, visual artist Lisi Raskin, painters Marc Handelman and Dana Schutz, poets Mary Jo Bang, Tracy K. Smith and Emily Fragos, screenwriter Jennifer Lee and James Mangold, screenwriter and actress Gülse Birsel, and directors Kathryn Bigelow and James Gunn.

Title: Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pennsylvania_Academy_of_the_Fine_Arts
Summary: The Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts (PAFA) is a museum and private art school in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Founded in 1805, it is the longest continuously operating art museum and art school in the United States.
The academy's museum is internationally known for its collections of 19th- and 20th-century American paintings, sculptures, and works on paper. Its archives house important materials for the study of American art history, museums, and art training. It offered a Bachelor of Fine Arts, Master of Fine Arts, certificate programs, and continuing education. Beginning in 2025, the academy will cease offering degrees except bachelor's degrees in conjunction with the University of Pennsylvania.

Title: St. John's School (Texas)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._John%27s_School_(Texas)
Summary: St. John's School (also known as St. John's or SJS) is a coeducational, independent K–12 day school in Houston, Texas, United States. The School was founded in 1946 and is a member of the Houston Area Independent Schools, the Independent Schools Association of the Southwest (ISAS), and the Southwest Preparatory Conference (SPC).  Though situated adjacent to St. John the Divine church, St. John's claims no religious affiliation. For the 2025–2026 school year, tuition ranges from approximately $30,000 to $37,000.
As of June 2024, SJS's endowment is $111,800,000.