Title: List of Avatar: The Last Airbender characters
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Avatar:_The_Last_Airbender_characters
Summary: This is a list of significant characters from the Nickelodeon animated television series Avatar: The Last Airbender and its sequel The Legend of Korra, co-created by Bryan Konietzko and Michael Dante DiMartino, as well the live-action Avatar series. This list also includes characters from the comic continuations as well as the Kyoshi, Yangchen and Roku prequel novels by FC Yee, Michael Dante DiMartino and Randy Ribay.

Title: Avatar: The Way of Water
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar:_The_Way_of_Water
Summary: Avatar: The Way of Water is a 2022 American epic science fiction film directed by James Cameron and written by Cameron, Rick Jaffa and Amanda Silver. It is the second installment in the Avatar film series and the sequel to Avatar (2009). Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldaña and Stephen Lang reprise their roles from the first film, with Sigourney Weaver returning in an additional role and Kate Winslet joining the cast. The plot follows Jake Sully, a human-Na'vi hybrid, and his family on the habitable moon Pandora. Hunted by RDA forces, they flee to an oceanic region to seek refuge with the Metkayina clan.
Following the success of Avatar in 2009, two sequels were announced, with the first aiming for a 2014 release. However, the addition of two more sequels—for a total of five films—and the need to develop new technology to film motion-capture scenes underwater, led to significant delays. The filming process, which occurred simultaneously with the third film in the franchise, Avatar: Fire and Ash, began in Manhattan Beach, California, on August 15, 2017. Production moved to Wellington, New Zealand the following month, and was completed three years later, in September 2020. With an estimated budget of $350–460 million, Avatar: The Way of Water is one of the most expensive films ever made. It was produced by Cameron's company Lightstorm Entertainment.
After repeated delays in release, Avatar: The Way of Water premiered at the Odeon Leicester Square theater in London on December 6, 2022, and was released in the United States on December 16, by 20th Century Studios. The film received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised the visual effects and technical achievements but criticized the runtime. It was a major box office success, breaking multiple records. It grossed $2.334 billion worldwide, becoming the highest-grossing film of 2022 and the third-highest-grossing film at the time of its release. Among its many accolades, it was named one of the top-ten films of 2022 by The National Board of Review and the American Film Institute. It was also nominated for four awards at the 95th Academy Awards, including Best Picture, and won for Best Visual Effects. The sequel, Avatar: Fire and Ash 'was released in December 2025.

Title: Avatar: Fire and Ash
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar:_Fire_and_Ash
Summary: Avatar: Fire and Ash is a 2025 American epic science fiction film directed by James Cameron from a screenplay he co-wrote with Rick Jaffa and Amanda Silver. Produced by Lightstorm Entertainment, it is the third installment in the Avatar film series and the sequel to Avatar: The Way of Water (2022). The film features Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldaña, Sigourney Weaver, Stephen Lang, and Kate Winslet reprising their roles from previous films. The story follows the human-turned-Na'vi Jake Sully and his family on the habitable moon Pandora, as they face the combined threat of the human RDA forces and the Mangkwan, a ruthless Na'vi clan.
Following the box office success of Avatar (2009), Cameron announced two sequels, with Avatar 3 aiming for a December 2015 release. However, the addition of two further sequels and the development of new performance capture technology required to film scenes underwater led to significant delays to allow the crew more time to work on writing, pre-production, and visual effects. Avatar: Fire and Ash started shooting simultaneously with The Way of Water in New Zealand on September 25, 2017, and filming wrapped in late December 2020. With an estimated production budget of at least $350 million, it is one of the most expensive films ever made.
Avatar: Fire and Ash had its world premiere at Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, on December 1, 2025, and was released in the United States on December 19 by 20th Century Studios. It received mixed to positive reviews from critics, who praised its visual effects, action sequences and spectacle, but criticized its runtime and script. The film grossed $1.490 billion worldwide, becoming the third-highest-grossing film of 2025 and the lowest-grossing film of the Avatar series. It won awards for its visual effects at the 98th Academy Awards and 79th British Academy Film Awards, and was named one of the top ten films of 2025 by the American Film Institute and the National Board of Review. Two sequels, Avatar 4 and Avatar 5, are scheduled for release in 2029 and 2031, respectively.

Title: Avatar (franchise)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar_(franchise)
Summary: Avatar is an American epic science fiction media franchise created by James Cameron, which began with the 2009 film Avatar. Produced by Lightstorm Entertainment and distributed by 20th Century Studios, it consists of associated merchandise, video games, and theme park attractions.

Title: List of accolades received by Avatar: The Way of Water
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_accolades_received_by_Avatar:_The_Way_of_Water
Summary: Avatar: The Way of Water is a 2022 American epic science fiction film directed by James Cameron from a screenplay he co-wrote with Rick Jaffa and Amanda Silver, with a story the trio wrote with Josh Friedman and Shane Salerno. Produced by Lightstorm Entertainment, and distributed by 20th Century Studios, it is the sequel to Avatar (2009) and the second installment in the Avatar film series. The film stars Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldaña, Sigourney Weaver, Stephen Lang, and Kate Winslet. It follows a blue-skinned humanoid Na'vi named Jake Sully (Worthington) as he and his family, under renewed human threat, seek refuge with the aquatic Metkayina clan of Pandora, a habitable moon on which they live.
Avatar: The Way of Water premiered in London on December 6, 2022, and was released in the United States on December 16. Produced on a budget of $350–460 million, The Way of Water grossed $2.320 billion, finishing its theatrical run as the highest-grossing film of 2022 and the third-highest-grossing film of all time. On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 76% based on 449 reviews.
Avatar: The Way of Water garnered many awards and nominations in various categories with particular recognition for Cameron's direction as well as its musical score, visual effects, cinematography, production design, and sound effects. It received four nominations at the 95th Academy Awards, including Best Picture. The film won Best Visual Effects. At the 76th British Academy Film Awards, it was nominated for Best Sound, and won Best Special Visual Effects. The Way of Water received six nominations at the 28th Critics' Choice Awards and won Best Visual Effects.
Avatar: The Way of Water garnered two nominations at the 80th Golden Globe Awards. The film won two awards at the 50th Annie Awards. At the 21st Visual Effects Society Awards, it was nominated for fourteen awards, a record that surpassed the number of previous ones for film (Avatar) and television (The Mandalorian). The film won nine, including Outstanding Visual Effects in a Photoreal Feature. In addition, both the American Film Institute and the National Board of Review selected The Way of Water as one of the top ten films of 2022.