Title: NBA Most Valuable Player
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NBA_Most_Valuable_Player
Summary: The NBA Most Valuable Player  (MVP) is an annual National Basketball Association (NBA) award given since the 1955–56 season to the best performing player of the regular season. Since the 2022–23 season, winners receive the Michael Jordan Trophy, named after the five-time MVP. A total of 36 players have won the award.
Prior to 2021, the winner received the Maurice Podoloff Trophy, which was named in honor of the first commissioner (then president) of the NBA, who served from 1946 until 1963. With the switch to the Michael Jordan Trophy, his name was moved to a new Maurice Podoloff Trophy given to the team with the best regular season record. 
Until the 1979–80 season, the MVP was selected by a vote of NBA players. Since the 1980–81 season, the award is decided by a panel of sportswriters and broadcasters throughout the United States and Canada. Each member of the voting panel casts a vote for first to fifth place selections. Each first-place vote is worth 10 points; each second-place vote is worth seven; each third-place vote is worth five, fourth-place is worth three and fifth-place is worth one. Starting from 2010, one ballot was cast by fans through online voting. The player with the highest point total wins the award. As of the 2025–26 season, the current holder of the award is Shai Gilgeous-Alexander of the Oklahoma City Thunder.
Every player who has won this award and deemed eligible for the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame has been inducted. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar won the award a record six times. He is also the only player to win the award despite his team not making the playoffs, in the 1975–76 season. Both Bill Russell and Michael Jordan won the award five times, while Wilt Chamberlain and LeBron James won the award four times.  Russell and James are the only players to have won the award four times in five seasons. Moses Malone, Larry Bird, Magic Johnson and Nikola Jokić each won the award three times, while Bob Pettit, Karl Malone, Tim Duncan, Steve Nash, Stephen Curry, Giannis Antetokounmpo, and Shai Gilgeous-Alexander won it twice. Russell, Chamberlain, and Bird are the only players to win the award in three consecutive years. Only two rookies have won the award: Chamberlain (1959–60) and Wes Unseld (1968–69). Eight players who won MVP (combining for thirteen total awards) are considered "international players" by the NBA: Hakeem Olajuwon of Nigeria, Duncan of the U.S. Virgin Islands, Nash of Canada, Dirk Nowitzki of Germany, Antetokounmpo of Greece, Nikola Jokić of Serbia, Joel Embiid of Cameroon, and Shai Gilgeous-Alexander of Canada.
Stephen Curry (2015–16) is the only player to have won the award unanimously. Shaquille O'Neal (1999–2000) and LeBron James (2012–13) are the only two players to have fallen one vote shy of a unanimous selection, both receiving 120 of 121 votes. Since the 1975–76 season, only three players have been named MVP for a season in which their team failed to win at least 50 regular season games—Moses Malone (twice, 1978–79 and 1981–82), Russell Westbrook (2016–17) and Nikola Jokić (2021–22).
As part of efforts to reduce load management for star players in the league, effective with the 2023–24 season, when a new collective bargaining agreement (CBA) between the league and its players' union took effect, players must appear in at least 65 games to be eligible for most regular-season awards and honors, including MVP. To receive credit for a game for purposes of award eligibility, a player must have been credited with at least 20 minutes played. However, two "near misses", in which the player appeared for 15 to 19 minutes, can be included in the 65-game count. Protections also exist for players who suffer season-ending injuries, who are eligible with 62 credited games, and those affected by what the CBA calls "bad faith circumstances".

Title: All-NBA Team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/All-NBA_Team
Summary: The All-NBA Team is an annual National Basketball Association (NBA) honor bestowed on the best players in the league following every NBA season. The voting is conducted by a global panel of sportswriters and broadcasters. The team has been selected in every season of the league's existence, dating back to its inaugural season in 1946. The All-NBA Team originally had two teams, but since 1988 it is composed of three five-man lineups—a first, second, and third team.
From 1956 through 2023, voters selected two guards, two forwards, and one center for each team. This contrasts with the voting for starters of the NBA All-Star Game, which has chosen two backcourt and three frontcourt players since 2013. The NBA's sister league, the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA), announced late in its 2022 season that it was changing the composition of its All-WNBA Teams from the All-NBA format to a "positionless" format in which members are selected without regard to position. Starting with the 2023–24 season, coinciding with the start of a new collective bargaining agreement (CBA) between the NBA and its players' union, the NBA adopted the WNBA's "positionless" format for All-NBA team composition—which the NBA had originally used before adopting a positional model in 1955–56. NBA players receive five points for a first team vote, three points for a second team vote, and one point for a third team vote. Starting in 2023–24, the five highest point totals regardless of position make up the first team, with the second and third teams following. During the positional era, the players with the highest point totals at each position made the first team, with the next highest making the second team and so forth.  On one occasion, six players were placed on a team, when Bob Davies and Dolph Schayes tied for the first team in 1952; the second team remained at five.
As part of effort to reduce load management for top stars in the league, the 2023–24 season introduced an eligibility threshold of 65 games played (out of the normal 82-game schedule) for most major regular-season playing awards and honors, including the All-NBA Team. To receive credit for a game for purposes of award eligibility, a player must have been credited with at least 20 minutes played. However, two "near misses", in which the player appeared for 15 to 19 minutes, can be included in the 65-game count. Protections also exist for players who suffer season-ending injuries, who are eligible with 62 credited games, and those affected by what the CBA calls "bad faith circumstances".
During the era of position-based team composition, voters were instructed to "vote for the player at the position he plays regularly", and some used the flexibility to designate a player at a position which was not their primary role. A player who received votes at multiple positions was classified at the position in which they received the most votes. This occasionally caused a player to be slotted to a lower team or miss an All-NBA selection altogether. For example, Draymond Green received votes at forward and center in 2016, but he was placed on the second team as a forward although he had more total points than the first-team center, DeAndre Jordan. In 2020, Khris Middleton garnered votes at both forward and guard, yet he was not on the third team despite having more points overall than Ben Simmons and Russell Westbrook, who were selected at guard.
LeBron James has the most All-NBA selections with twenty-one. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Kobe Bryant, and Tim Duncan previously shared the record with fifteen. James also has the most All-NBA First Team honors with thirteen and is the only player to have done so as a member of three different teams, while Bryant and Karl Malone are tied for second-most with eleven. Malone and James each share a record eleven consecutive first-team selections. James is both the youngest and oldest player to earn All-NBA honors, with his first All-NBA selection coming at the age of 20, and his most recent coming at the age of 40. Hakeem Olajuwon became the first international player to be named All-NBA in 1985–86.  Since 2019, at least two international players have been named each season to the All-NBA First Team, including four players for the first time in 2023.

Title: List of NBA players with most championships
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_NBA_players_with_most_championships
Summary: The following is a list of National Basketball Association (NBA) players who won the most championships.
The NBA is a major professional basketball league in North America. It was founded in 1946 as the Basketball Association of America (BAA). The league adopted its current name at the start of the 1949–50 NBA season when it merged with the National Basketball League (NBL). The NBA Finals is the championship series for the NBA and the conclusion of the sport's postseason. The winning team of the series receives the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy. Players from the winning team usually receive championship rings from the team honoring their contribution, with "rings" becoming shorthand for championships. The number of championships won by NBA superstars is often used as a measurement of their greatness.
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the record for the most NBA championships won with 11 titles during his 13 years playing career.
As of the 2026 NBA Finals, Robert Horry, John Salley, LeBron James and Danny Green are the only players to have won championships with three different teams.

Title: NBA championship ring
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NBA_championship_ring
Summary: In the National Basketball Association (NBA), a championship ring is awarded to members of the team that win the annual NBA Finals. Rings are presented to the team's players, coaches, and members of the executive-front office. The Boston Celtics have the most rings in NBA history, winning the finals 18 times. Phil Jackson is the coach with the most championship rings, and Bill Russell has the most as an NBA player (11 each).

Title: List of individuals with most NBA championships
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_individuals_with_most_NBA_championships
Summary: This is a list of individuals with the most combined NBA championships. The National Basketball Association (NBA) is a major professional basketball league in North America. It was founded in 1946 as the Basketball Association of America (BAA). The league adopted its current name at the start of the 1949–50 season when it merged with the National Basketball League (NBL). The NBA Finals is the championship series for the NBA and the conclusion of the sport's postseason. The winning team's players, coaches, and members of the executive front office usually receive championship rings from the team honoring their contribution, with "rings" becoming shorthand for championships. However, in some rare occasion, the teams opted to give other commemorative items, such as wrist watches, instead of rings. An NBA team can choose who in their organization is awarded a ring; in addition to the players, coaches, and the front office, rings can and are awarded to trainers, medical staff, scouts, and occasionally cheerleaders, equipment managers, mascots and other arena staff. This list is limited to individuals who won a ring as at least one of the following:

a player,
a head coach,
an assistant coach,
a front office executive.