Title: Robert Downey Jr.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Downey_Jr.
Summary: Robert John Downey Jr. (born April 4, 1965) is an American actor and producer. His films as a leading actor have grossed over $14.3 billion worldwide, making him one of the highest-grossing actors of all time. Downey was the highest-paid actor in the world annually from 2013 to 2015. Known for his versatility across roles, he is the recipient of various accolades, including an Academy Award, a Daytime Emmy Award, three Golden Globe Awards, and two British Academy Film Awards.
At the age of five, Downey made his acting debut in his father Robert Downey Sr.'s film Pound (1970). He rose to prominence by working with the Brat Pack for the teen films Weird Science (1985) and Less than Zero (1987). His portrayal of Charlie Chaplin in the biopic Chaplin (1992) earned him the BAFTA Award for Best Actor and an Academy Award nomination. After spending less than a year at a treatment facility on drug charges, Downey joined the television series Ally McBeal in 2000, earning a Golden Globe for his performance. Dismissed from the show in 2001 following further drug-related arrests, he entered a court-ordered rehabilitation program and has remained sober since 2003.
Downey revitalized his career and achieved global recognition by starring as Tony Stark / Iron Man in ten Marvel Cinematic Universe films, beginning with a solo feature film in 2008. He is set to return to the franchise as Doctor Doom in Avengers: Doomsday (2026). He earned his second Academy Award nomination for his performance in the satirical comedy  Tropic Thunder (2008) and later won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of bureaucrat Lewis Strauss in Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer (2023). He also portrayed the titular role in Sherlock Holmes (2009), which earned him a Golden Globe Award nomination. In 2024, he was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for the miniseries The Sympathizer and made his Broadway debut in the title role of Ayad Akhtar's McNeal.
Time named Downey one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2008 and Forbes featured him on the Celebrity 100 in 2013 and 2014. He has pursued music, releasing the jazz-pop album The Futurist (2004), which charted on the US Billboard 200. Divorced from singer Deborah Falconer, Downey has been married to film producer Susan Levin since 2005; they co-founded the production company Team Downey. Downey has three children: one with Falconer and two with Levin. In 2025, he was named one of the greatest film actors of the 21st century by The Independent.

Title: Robert S. Langer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_S._Langer
Summary: Robert Samuel Langer Jr. FREng (born August 29, 1948) is an American biotechnologist, businessman, chemical engineer, chemist, and inventor. He is one of the 12 Institute Professors at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He was formerly the Germeshausen Professor of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering and maintains activity in the Department of Chemical Engineering and the Department of Biological Engineering at MIT. He is also a faculty member of the Harvard–MIT Program in Health Sciences and Technology and the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research.
Langer has received the worlds 2 highest engineering honors - the Charles Stark Draper Prize and the Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering (each of which has been called the Engineering Nobel Prize).  He is the only person to have received both of these awards individually.  Langer holds over 1,400 granted or pending patents. He is one of the world's most highly cited researchers and his h-index is now (according to Google Scholar, 2026-5-23) 338 with currently over 481,000 citations. He is a widely recognized and cited researcher in biotechnology, especially in the fields of drug delivery systems and tissue engineering.
He is the most cited engineer in history and one of the 10 most cited individuals in any field, having authored over 1,600 scientific papers. Langer is also a prolific businessman, having been behind the participation in the founding of over 40 biotechnology companies  including the well-known American pharmaceutical company, Moderna.
Langer's research laboratory at MIT is the largest biomedical engineering lab in the world; maintaining over $10 million in annual grants and over 100 researchers.  He has been awarded numerous leading prizes in recognition of his work.

Title: Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_Prize_in_Life_Sciences
Summary: The Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences is a scientific award, funded by internet entrepreneurs Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan of Facebook; Sergey Brin of Google; entrepreneur and venture capitalist Yuri Milner; and Anne Wojcicki, one of the founders of the genetics company 23andMe.
The award of $3 million, the largest award in the sciences, is given to researchers who have made discoveries that extend human life. The Prize is awarded annually, beginning in 2013, with six awards given in each subsequent year. Winners are expected to give public lectures and form the committee to decide future winners. The ceremony takes place in the San Francisco Bay Area, with the symposiums alternating between University of California, Berkeley, University of California, San Francisco, and Stanford University.

Title: Taylor Russell
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taylor_Russell
Summary: Taylor Russell McKenzie (born July 18, 1994) is a Canadian actress and filmmaker. After playing a number of minor roles, Russell received recognition for starring in the Netflix science fiction series Lost in Space (2018–2021). She rose to prominence with her roles in the drama film Waves (2019), and the horror film Escape Room (2019) and its 2021 sequel. For starring in the road movie Bones and All (2022), she won the Marcello Mastroianni Award. She performed onstage in the play The Effect from 2023 to 2024. Russell co-directed the 2020 short documentary film The Heart Still Hums, with Savanah Leaf, which was the base for a movie adaptation by Leaf titled Earth Mama (2023).

Title: List of awards and nominations received by Timothée Chalamet
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_awards_and_nominations_received_by_Timoth%C3%A9e_Chalamet
Summary: American and French actor Timothée Chalamet's major nominations include four Academy Awards, five Golden Globe Awards (winning once), six British Academy Film Awards, nine Actor Awards (winning one), eleven Critics' Choice Movie Awards (winning twice), and a Grammy Award.
After playing minor roles in several films and television shows, Chalamet starred in his first major role as Finn Walden on the television drama series Homeland (2012), for which he was nominated for the Actor Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series along with the rest of the cast. In 2016, Chalamet starred in John Patrick Shanley's autobiographical play Prodigal Son at Manhattan Theatre Club, for which he was nominated for the Drama League Award for Distinguished Performance and won the Lucille Lortel Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Play.
Chalamet's breakthrough role as Elio Perlman in the 2017 acclaimed independent coming-of-age romantic drama Call Me by Your Name earned him an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor, making him the third-youngest nominee in the category and the youngest since Mickey Rooney was nominated aged 19 in 1939 for Babes in Arms. He was also nominated for the BAFTA Award, Critics' Choice Movie Award, Golden Globe Award, and Actor Award for Best Actor. He won acting awards given by the London Film Critics' Circle, New York Film Critics Circle, Los Angeles Film Critics Association, and National Board of Review.
Chalamet also gained recognition for his supporting roles in the 2017 films Lady Bird and Hostiles. The former earned him nominations for the Critics' Choice Movie Award and the Actor Award for Best Ensemble. The following year, he starred as a drug-addicted teenager in the drama Beautiful Boy, for which he received nominations for the BAFTA Award, Critics' Choice Movie Award, Golden Globe Award, and Actor Award for Best Supporting Actor. In 2021, Chalamet received ensemble nominations for the Actor Award and the Critics’ Choice Movie Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture and Best Cast respectively, for his performance in Don't Look Up. In 2023, he received his third Golden Globe nomination, in the category Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy for his role as a young Willy Wonka in Wonka.
Chalamet's portrayal of Bob Dylan in the 2024 biographical musical drama A Complete Unknown earned him a second Academy Award nomination for Best Actor, making him the third-youngest two-time nominee in the category and the youngest since 24-year-old James Dean. He was nominated for  BAFTA, Critics' Choice and Golden Globes, and won the Actor Award for Best Actor, becoming the youngest to do so in the category. He also received his first Grammy Award nomination for the film's soundtrack.
His turn as the ambitious table-tennis player, Marty Mauser, in the 2025 sports comedy film Marty Supreme earned Chalamet another Actor Award nomination for the Outstanding Male Actor in a Leading Role, while also becoming the youngest winner of the Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Actor and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy at both ceremonies.