Title: List of Game of the Year awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Game_of_the_Year_awards
Summary: Game of the Year (GotY) is an award given to a video game by various award events and media publications that they feel represented the pinnacle of gaming that year.
Of these award events, five are considered the most significant, those being the Golden Joysticks, the Game Awards, the D.I.C.E. Awards, the Game Developer Choice Awards, and the BAFTA Games Awards. Only two games have won all five in a given year: Baldur's Gate 3 in 2023 and Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 in 2025.

Title: The Game Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Game_Awards
Summary: The Game Awards is an annual awards ceremony honoring achievements in the video game industry. Established in 2014, the shows are produced and hosted by game journalist Geoff Keighley. After working on its predecessor, the Spike Video Game Awards, for over ten years, Keighley worked with several video game companies to create the show. In addition to the awards, the Game Awards features premieres of upcoming games and new information on previously announced titles. The show's reception is generally mixed: it has been lauded for its announcements and criticized for its lack of acknowledgement of events, use of promotional content and treatment of award winners.
After the first ceremony at the AXIS in Las Vegas, each show is held in the Peacock Theater in Los Angeles. Keighley has declined several offers from television networks to air the show. The Game Awards has a committee composed of representatives of companies such as Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony. They select over a hundred video game press organizations eligible for nomination, and vote on games in the show's categories. Keighley and the committee itself do not participate in voting. Games released before a specific date in November are eligible for nomination. Games released after that date are eligible for the following year's awards. Most winners are determined by a mixed vote from 90% of the voting jury and 10% of fan votes.

Title: Game Developers Choice Award for Game of the Year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Game_Developers_Choice_Award_for_Game_of_the_Year
Summary: The Game Developers Choice Award for the Game of the Year, also known as GDCA Game of the Year, is the main video game award presented at the Game Developers Conference (GDC), the largest annual gathering of professional video game developers. The conference, usually held in or around March in San Francisco, presents the award as part of the Game Developers Choice Awards (GDCA), a series of awards honoring outstanding achievements in video game design for games released during the previous calendar year. It has been awarded since 2001.
Only four studios have won the award more than once:

Valve, for Half-Life 2 (2004) and Portal (2007)
Bethesda Game Studios, for Fallout 3 (2008) and The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim (2011)
Naughty Dog, for Uncharted 2: Among Thieves (2009) and The Last of Us (2013)
Rockstar Games, for Grand Theft Auto III (2001) and Red Dead Redemption (2010)
The most successful video game publisher to date is Sony Interactive Entertainment with 13 nominations and 4 wins, followed by Nintendo (11 nominations, 1 win), Electronic Arts (8 nominations and 1 win) and Rockstar Games (7 nominations and 2 wins). Indie games have won the award 5 times: Journey (published by Sony Interactive Entertainment) in 2012, Untitled Goose Game in 2019, Hades in 2020, Inscryption in 2021, and Balatro in 2024.

Title: The Game Award for Game of the Year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Game_Award_for_Game_of_the_Year
Summary: The Game Award for Game of the Year is an award presented annually by The Game Awards. It is given to a video game judged to deliver the best experience across creative and technical fields. The award is traditionally accepted by the game's directors or studio executives. The process begins with over 100 video game publications and websites, which collectively name six games as nominees. After the nominees are selected, the winner is chosen by a combined vote between the jury (90%) and public voting (10%).
Since its inception, the award has been given to eleven video games. Publisher Sony Interactive Entertainment has won the award three times and been nominated a record fourteen times, while FromSoftware is the only developer with more than one win. Bethesda Softworks and Capcom are the most nominated companies without a win at four. The most recent winner is Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 by Sandfall Interactive.

Title: The Game Awards 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Game_Awards_2024
Summary: The Game Awards 2024 was an award show to honor the best video games of 2024. It was the eleventh show hosted by Geoff Keighley, creator and producer of the Game Awards, and held with a live audience at the Peacock Theater in Los Angeles on December 12, 2024, and live streamed across online platforms globally. It featured musical performances from d4vd, Royal & the Serpent, Snoop Dogg, and Twenty One Pilots, and presentations from celebrity guests including Harrison Ford, Hideo Kojima, and Aaron Paul.
Astro Bot and Final Fantasy VII Rebirth led the nominees with seven each, and the former led the show with four wins, including Game of the Year. The inaugural Game Changer award honored Amir Satvat for helping workers in the industry find jobs amid mass layoffs. Several new games were announced, including Elden Ring Nightreign, Intergalactic: The Heretic Prophet, and The Witcher IV. The show was viewed by over 154 million streams, the most in its history to date. Journalists praised the game announcements, developer speeches, and deserving winners, though the eligibility of downloadable content led to mixed responses.