Title: University of Florida
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Florida
Summary: The University of Florida (Florida or UF) is a public land-grant research university in Gainesville, Florida, United States. It is a senior member of the State University System of Florida. The university traces its origins to 1853 and has operated continuously on its Gainesville campus since September 1906.
After the Florida state legislature's creation of performance standards in 2013, the Florida Board of Governors designated the University of Florida as a "preeminent university". The University of Florida is one of three members of the Association of American Universities in Florida and is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research spending and doctorate production".
The university is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS). It is the fourth largest U.S. public university by student population and is the fifth largest single-campus university in the United States with 54,814 students enrolled in fall 2023. The University of Florida is home to 16 academic colleges and more than 150 research centers and institutes. It offers multiple graduate professional programs—including business administration, engineering, law, dentistry, medicine, pharmacy and veterinary medicine—on one contiguous campus and administers 123 master's degree programs and 76 doctoral degree programs in 87 schools and departments. The university's seal is also the seal of the state of Florida, which is on the state flag, though in blue rather than multiple colors.
The University of Florida has been affiliated with 2 Nobel Laureates, 3 Marshall Scholars, 13 Rhodes Scholars, and 1 Fields Medalist. The university's intercollegiate sports teams, the Florida Gators, compete in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I and the Southeastern Conference (SEC). As of 2021, University of Florida students and alumni have won 143 Olympic medals, including 69 gold medals.

Title: Howard University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Howard_University
Summary: Howard University is a private, historically black, federally chartered research university in Washington, D.C., United States. It is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity" and accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. It is the only HBCU with R1 designation.
Established in 1867, Howard is a nonsectarian institution located in the Shaw neighborhood. It offers undergraduate, graduate, and professional degrees in more than 120 programs.

Title: University of the Arts (Philadelphia)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_the_Arts_(Philadelphia)
Summary: The University of the Arts (UArts) was a private arts university in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Its campus made up part of the Avenue of the Arts cultural district in Center City, Philadelphia. On May 31, 2024, university administrators suddenly announced that the university would close on June 7, 2024, although its precarious financial situation had been known for some time. It was accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education.
The university included six schools: the School of Art, School of Dance, School of Design, School of Film, School of Music (accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music), and the Ira Brind School of Theater Arts, along with graduate and professional programs. A Saturday School of art classes for children opened in 1900.

Title: Columbia University School of the Arts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbia_University_School_of_the_Arts
Summary: The Columbia University School of the Arts (also known as School of the Arts or SoA) is the fine arts graduate school of Columbia University in Morningside Heights, New York. It offers Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degrees in Film, Visual Arts, Theatre and Writing, as well as the Master of Arts (MA) degree in Film Studies. It also works closely with the Arts Initiative at Columbia University (CUArts) and organizes the Columbia University Film Festival (CUFF), a week-long program of screenings, screenplay, and teleplay readings.
Founded in 1965, the school is one of the leading institutions for the study of visual, performing, and literary arts in the United States. Among the school's distinguished graduates are sculptors David Altmejd and Banks Violette, visual artist Lisi Raskin, painters Marc Handelman and Dana Schutz, poets Mary Jo Bang, Tracy K. Smith and Emily Fragos, screenwriter Jennifer Lee and James Mangold, screenwriter and actress Gülse Birsel, and directors Kathryn Bigelow and James Gunn.

Title: Virginia Commonwealth University School of the Arts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virginia_Commonwealth_University_School_of_the_Arts
Summary: The Virginia Commonwealth University School of the Arts (abbreviated as VCU Arts) is the arts school of Virginia Commonwealth University, a public university in Richmond, Virginia, United States.
The school has 18 bachelor's degree programs and six master's degree programs.  Its satellite campus in Doha, Qatar, VCUarts Qatar, offers five bachelor's degrees and one master's degree. It was the first off-site campus to open in Education City by an American university.
Founded in 1928 as a single painting class by artist Theresa Pollak, VCUarts became the official art school of the university in 1933. VCUarts has been ranked in the top four art schools in the United States by U.S. News & World Report since at least 2008.