Title: 2004 Summer Olympics medal table
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2004_Summer_Olympics_medal_table
Summary: The 2004 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXVIII Olympiad, were a summer multi-sport event held in Athens, the capital city of Greece, from 13 to 29 August 2004. A total of 10,625 athletes from a record 201 countries represented by National Olympic Committees (NOC) participated in these games. The games featured 301 events in 28 sports and 39 disciplines, including the Olympic debuts of women's wrestling and women's sabre. Kiribati and Timor Leste competed for the first time in these Olympic Games. It was the second time after 1896 that Athens had hosted the Summer Olympics in the modern era.
Athletes from 74 countries won at least one medal and 56 of them won at least one gold medal. The United States led the medal table both in number of gold medals won and in overall medals, winning 36 and 101 respectively. It was the third consecutive Summer Olympic Games that the United States led the medal count in both gold and overall medals.  The United Arab Emirates, Paraguay and Eritrea won their first ever Olympic medals. Israel, Chile, Dominican Republic, Georgia, Chinese Taipei and the United Arab Emirates won their first Olympic gold medals. American swimmer Michael Phelps won the most gold medals among individual participants with six and the most total medals with eight (six gold and two bronze), equalling the record held by Soviet gymnast Alexander Dityatin in 1980 for the most medals won at an Olympic Games.
During and after the Games, some athletes who were caught doping, or tested positive for banned substances, were disqualified from competition and had their medals rescinded.

Title: 2000 Summer Olympics medal table
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2000_Summer_Olympics_medal_table
Summary: The 2000 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXVII Olympiad, were a summer multi-sport event held in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, from 15 September to 1 October 2000. A total of 10,651 athletes from 199 nations represented by National Olympic Committees (NOCs) (with four individual athletes from East Timor because the country had no NOC), including the Olympic debuts of Eritrea, Micronesia and Palau. The games featured 300 events in 28 sports across 39 disciplines, including the debuts of synchronized diving, taekwondo,  triathlon, trampolining, women's modern pentathlon and women's weightlifting as official Olympic medal events.
Athletes from 80 countries won at least one medal, a new record, with 52 nations winning at least one gold medal. The United States won the most gold medals, with 37, and the most medals overall, with 93. It was the second consecutive Summer Olympic Games that the United States led the medal count in both gold and overall medals. Host nation Australia finished the Games with 58 medals overall (16 gold, 25 silver, and 17 bronze). Cameroon, Colombia, Latvia, Mozambique and Slovenia won a gold medal for the first time in their Olympic histories, while Vietnam, Barbados, Macedonia, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, and Saudi Arabia won their first ever Olympic medals. Among individual athletes, Australia's Ian Thorpe, the Netherlands' Leontien van Moorsel and Inge de Bruijn and the United States' Jenny Thompson and Lenny Krayzelburg won the most gold medals at the games with three each and Russian gymnast Alexei Nemov won the most overall medals with six (two gold, one silver and three bronze).

Title: All-time Olympic Games medal table
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/All-time_Olympic_Games_medal_table
Summary: The all-time medal table  for all Olympic Games from 1896 to 2026, including Summer Olympic Games, Winter Olympic Games, and a combined total of both, is tabulated below. These Olympic medal counts do not include the 1906 Intercalated Games which are no longer recognized by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) as official Games.
The IOC itself does not publish all-time tables, and publishes unofficial tables only per single Games. This table was thus compiled by adding up single entries from the IOC database.
The results are attributed to the IOC country code as currently displayed by the IOC database. Usually, a single code corresponds to a single National Olympic Committee (NOC). When different codes are displayed for different years, medal counts are combined in the case of a simple change of IOC code (such as from HOL to NED for the Netherlands) or simple change of country name (such as from Ceylon to Sri Lanka). As the medals are attributed to each NOC, not all totals include medals won by athletes from that country for another NOC, such as before independence of that country. Names in italic are national entities that no longer exist. The totals of NOCs are not combined with those of their predecessors and successors.

Title: Botswana at the Olympics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Botswana_at_the_Olympics
Summary: Botswana has competed in 12 Summer Olympic Games since its debut in 1980. The nation has never participated in the Winter Olympic Games. 
Botswana won its inaugural medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics with Nijel Amos
getting a silver in the 800m. The men's 4 × 400 relay team won a bronze medal at the 2020 Summer Olympics.
In 2024, sprinter Letsile Tebogo won Botswana's first-ever Olympic gold medal after winning the men's 200 metres, also becoming the first African to win the title.

Title: 2024 Summer Olympics medal table
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Summer_Olympics_medal_table
Summary: The 2024 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXXIII Olympiad, were an international multi-sport event held in Paris, France, from 26 July to 11 August 2024, with preliminary events in some sports beginning on 24 July. Athletes representing 206 National Olympic Committees (NOCs) participated in the games. The games featured 329 medal events across 32 sports and 48 disciplines. Breaking (breakdancing) made its Olympic debut as an optional sport, while skateboarding, sport climbing, and surfing returned to the programme, having debuted at the 2020 Summer Olympics.
Overall, individuals representing 92 NOCs received at least one medal, with 64 of them winning at least one gold medal. Botswana, Dominica, Guatemala, and Saint Lucia won their nations' first Olympic gold medals. Albania, Cape Verde, Dominica, and Saint Lucia won their nations' first Olympic medals. The Refugee Olympic Team also won their first medal.
The United States led the final medal table for the fourth consecutive Summer Games, with 40 gold and 126 total medals, while China finished second with 40 gold and 91 medals in total. The occasion marked the first time a gold medal tie among the two most successful nations has occurred in Summer Olympics history. Among individual participants, Chinese swimmer Zhang Yufei won the most medals at the games with six (one silver, five bronze), while French swimmer Léon Marchand had the most gold medals with four.