Title: President of the Philippines
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_the_Philippines
Summary: President of the Philippines (Filipino: Pangulo ng Pilipinas, sometimes referred to as Presidente ng Pilipinas) is the title of the head of state, head of government and chief executive of the Philippines. The president leads the executive branch of the Philippine government and is the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.
The president is directly elected by the citizens of the Philippines and is one of only two nationally elected executive officials, the other being the vice president of the Philippines. However, four vice presidents have assumed the presidency without having been elected to the office, by virtue of a president's intra-term death or resignation.
Filipinos generally refer to their president as pangulo or presidente in their local language. The president is limited to a single six-year term. According to Article VII, Section 4 of the 1987 Philippine Constitution, the president "shall not be eligible for any reelection" and that, "no person who has succeeded as president and has served as such for more than four years shall be qualified for election to the same office at any time." This constitutional limitation, however, was not violated in the case of Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, although she served as president for 9 years, 5 months, and 29 days, from 2001 to 2004 (three and a half years), after taking over the office of President Joseph Estrada, who  was ousted after the Second EDSA Revolution, and from 2004 until 2010 when she served as the elected president in her own right.
The current president of the Philippines is Bongbong Marcos, who was sworn in on June 30, 2022, at the National Museum of Fine Arts (formerly the Legislative Building).

Title: List of presidents of the Philippines
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_presidents_of_the_Philippines
Summary: Under the Constitution of the Philippines, the president of the Philippines (Filipino: Pangulo ng Pilipinas) is both the head of state and government, and serves as the commander-in-chief of the country's armed forces. The president is directly elected by qualified voters to a six-year term and must be "a natural-born citizen of the Philippines, a registered voter, able to read and write, at least forty years of age on the day of the election, and a resident of the Philippines for at least ten years immediately preceding such election". No elected president can seek re-election. Upon resignation, or removal from the office, the vice president assumes the post. A president's successor who hasn't served for more than four years can still seek a full term for the presidency.
The incumbent president is Bongbong Marcos, who assumed office on June 30, 2022.

Title: Vice President of the Philippines
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vice_President_of_the_Philippines
Summary: Vice President of the Philippines (Filipino: Pangalawang Pangulo ng Pilipinas, also referred to as Bise Presidente ng Pilipinas) is the title of the second-highest official in the executive branch of the Philippine government and is first in the presidential line of succession. The vice president is directly elected by the citizens of the Philippines and is one of only two nationally elected executive officials, the other being the president.
The current office of the vice president was re-established under the 1987 Constitution, bearing similarities with the office as created in the 1935 Constitution that was abolished by the Marcos regime. The vice president may be elected to two consecutive six-year terms. The 15th and incumbent vice president Sara Duterte was inaugurated on June 19, 2022, but her term officially began 11 days later on June 30, as per the constitution.

Title: President of the Senate of the Philippines
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_the_Senate_of_the_Philippines
Summary: The president of the Senate of the Philippines (Filipino: Pangulo ng Senado ng Pilipinas), commonly referred to as Senate president (SP), is the presiding officer and highest-ranking official of the Senate of the Philippines, and is elected by the current senators from among themselves. The Senate president holds the third-highest rank in the country's government, and is second in the line of succession to the presidency – behind the vice president and ahead of the speaker of the House of Representatives.
As of June 2026, the president of the Senate is Sherwin Gatchalian, a member of the Nationalist People's Coalition.

Title: Office of the Vice President of the Philippines
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_of_the_Vice_President_of_the_Philippines
Summary: The Office of the Vice President (OVP; Filipino: Tanggapan ng Pangalawang Pangulo) is an administrative, advisory, consultative government agency which aids the vice president of the Philippines in performing their duty as the second-highest executive official of the government of the Philippines.