Title: 2025
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025
Summary: 2025 (MMXXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar, the 2025th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 25th  year of the 3rd millennium and the 21st century, and the  6th   year of the 2020s decade.  
The year saw an escalation of major ongoing armed conflicts, including the Gaza war, marked by famine and a humanitarian crisis; the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which prompted peace negotiations involving Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump; and the Sudanese civil war.
Internal crises in Armenia, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, France, Georgia, Germany, Haiti, Libya, Pakistan, Peru, Somalia, and South Korea persisted into the year, with the latter culminating in the arrest and removal of President Yoon Suk Yeol from office. Furthermore, a diplomatic crisis between China and Japan broke out in November.
The year also witnessed a wave of protests predominantly led by Generation Z, with some movements—such as those in Nepal and Madagascar—resulting in the overthrow of targeted governments. Several brief conflicts arising from longstanding tensions emerged mid-year, including clashes between India and Pakistan in May, Iran and Israel in June, and Cambodia and Thailand in July. In the latter case, a leaked phone call involving Thai prime minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and Cambodian senate president Hun Sen resulted in the removal of the former from office.
In economics and business, the return of Donald Trump to the U.S. presidency ushered in a series of tariffs imposed by the United States on the rest of the world, significantly disrupting global trade and reinvigorating the China–United States trade war. The technology sector was also affected by the release of the DeepSeek chatbot, a Chinese large language model that competed with ChatGPT.
Aviation and aerospace experienced several accidents during the year, including a collision between two aircraft half a mile south of Washington National Airport in January, and the crash of Air India Flight 171, a Boeing 787 bound for Gatwick, in Ahmedabad, India, in June. The year also saw notable advances in space exploration, including the first crewed polar-orbit spaceflight and the first fully successful lunar landing by a private company.

Title: Philomena, Countess of Paris
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philomena,_Countess_of_Paris
Summary: Philomena de Tornos y Steinhart (born 19 June 1977) is an aristocrat of Hispanic-Austrian descent. Philomena, who uses the courtesy title of "Countess of Paris", is the wife of Jean d'Orléans, Count of Paris, Orléanist claimant to the defunct throne of France and head of the House of Orléans, a cadet branch of the House of Bourbon.

Title: List of LGBTQ politicians in France
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_LGBTQ_politicians_in_France
Summary: This is a list of lesbian, gay, and bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people who have served in various institutions of the government of France at the national and sub-national levels.

Title: 2027 French presidential election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2027_French_presidential_election
Summary: Presidential elections are scheduled to be held in France on 18 April 2027, with a second round on 2 May if no candidate secures a majority vote. The election may be held earlier under exceptional circumstances if the presidency falls vacant before then. 
Incumbent president Emmanuel Macron is ineligible to stand, as the French constitution limits presidents to two consecutive terms.

Title: 2026 Los Angeles mayoral election
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Los_Angeles_mayoral_election
Summary: The 2026 Los Angeles mayoral election will be held on November 3, 2026 to elect the mayor of Los Angeles, California. A nonpartisan top-two primary was held on June 2, 2026. Incumbent mayor Karen Bass announced her re-election bid in July 2024. In the June 8 primary, Bass and city councilor Nithya Raman advanced to the general election.