Title: Lingala
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lingala
Summary: Lingala (or Ngala, Lingala: Lingála) is a Bantu language spoken in the northwest of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the northern half of the Republic of the Congo, in their capitals, Kinshasa and Brazzaville, and to a lesser degree as a trade language because of emigration in neighbouring Angola or Central African Republic. Lingala has 20 million native speakers and about another 20 million second-language speakers, for an approximate total of 40 million speakers. A significant portion of both Congolese diasporas speaks Lingala in their countries of immigration like Belgium, France or the United States.

Title: List of official languages by country and territory
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_official_languages_by_country_and_territory
Summary: This is a list of official languages by country and territory. It includes all languages that have official language status either statewide or in a part of the state, or that have status as a national language, regional language, or minority language.

Title: African French
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/African_French
Summary: African French (French: français africain) is the umbrella grouping of varieties of the French language spoken throughout Francophone Africa. Used mainly as a secondary language or lingua franca, it is spoken by an estimated 167 million people across 34 countries and territories, some of which are not Francophone, but merely members or observers of the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie. Of these, 18 sovereign states recognize it as an official de jure language, though it is not the native tongue of the majority. According to Ethnologue, only 1.2 million people spoke it as a first language. African French speakers represent 47% of the Francophonie, making Africa the continent with the most French speakers in the world.
In Africa, French is often spoken as a second language alongside the Indigenous ones, but in a small number of urban areas (in particular in Central Africa and in the ports located on the Gulf of Guinea) it has become a first language, such as in the region of Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in the urban areas of Douala, Yaoundé in Cameroon, in Libreville, Gabon, and Antananarivo. 
In some countries, though not having official de jure status, it is a first language among a small social classes of the population, such as in Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, and Mauritania, where French is a first language among the upper classes along with Arabic (many people in the upper classes are simultaneous bilinguals in Arabic/French), but only a second language among the general population. 
In each of the Francophone African countries, French is spoken with local variations in pronunciation and vocabulary.

Title: List of countries and dependencies and their capitals in native languages
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_and_dependencies_and_their_capitals_in_native_languages
Summary: The following chart lists countries and dependencies along with their capital cities, in English and non-English official language(s).

In bold: internationally recognized sovereign states
The 193 member states of the United Nations (UN)
Vatican City (administered by the Holy See, a UN observer state), which is generally recognized as a sovereign state
In bold italics: states with limited recognition and associated states not members of the United Nations
De facto sovereign states with partial international recognition, such as Palestine, Kosovo and Taiwan
De facto sovereign states lacking general international recognition
Cook Islands and Niue, two associated states of New Zealand without UN membership
In italics: non-sovereign territories that are recognized by the UN as part of some member state
Dependent territories
Special territories recognized by international treaty (such as the special administrative regions of China)
Other territories often regarded as separate geographical territories even though they are integral parts of their mother countries (such as the overseas departments of France)

Title: Languages of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Languages_of_the_Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo
Summary: The Democratic Republic of the Congo is a multilingual country where an estimated total of 242 languages are spoken. The publication Ethnologue lists 215 living languages. The official language, since the colonial period, is French, one of the languages of Belgium. Four other languages, all of them Bantu based, have the status of national language: Kikongo-Kituba, Lingala, Swahili and Tshiluba.
The DRC is a Francophone country, where, as of 2024, 55.393 million (50.69%) out of 109.276 million people speak French. In fact, 74% of the population use French as a lingua franca, showing that many speak it as a second or third language, even if they are not fully proficient.
In 2024, there were over 12 million native French speakers, or around 12% of the population.
When the country was a Belgian colony, it had already instituted teaching and use of the four national languages in primary schools, making it one of the few African nations to have had literacy in local languages during the European colonial period.