Title: Formula One
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formula_One
Summary: Formula One (F1) is the highest class of worldwide racing for open-wheel, single-seater formula racing cars run by the Formula One Group and sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The FIA Formula One World Championship has been one of the world's premier forms of motorsport since its inaugural running in 1950 and is often considered to be the pinnacle of motorsport. The word formula in the name refers to the set of rules all participant cars must follow. A Formula One season consists of a series of races, known as Grands Prix. Grands Prix take place in multiple countries and continents on either purpose-built circuits or closed roads, as street circuits.
A points scoring system is used at Grands Prix to determine two annual World Championships: one for the drivers, and one for the constructors—now synonymous with teams. Each driver must hold a valid Super Licence, the highest class of racing licence the FIA issues, and the races must be held on Grade One tracks, the highest grade rating the FIA issues for circuits.
The commercial rights to F1 are leased to Liberty Media Corporation, acquired in 2017 for an estimated $8 billion, previously owned by British business magnate Bernie Ecclestone. The new ownership added five Grands Prix to the calendar: Miami, Las Vegas, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Dutch.
Formula One cars are the world's fastest regulated road-course racing cars, owing to high cornering speeds achieved by generating large amounts of aerodynamic downforce, most of which is generated by front and rear wings, as well as underbody tunnels. The cars depend on electronics, aerodynamics, suspension, and tyres. Traction control, launch control, automatic shifting, and other electronic driving aids were first banned in 1994. They were briefly reintroduced in 2001 but were banned once more in 2004 and later 2008.
The cost cap as of the 2026 season stands at US$215 million, but the actual total cost of running an F1 team often exceeds that due to exclusions outside the cost cap. It is because of this that Formula One's financial and political battles are widely reported. The United Kingdom is the hub of Formula One racing, with six out of the eleven teams based there.

Title: List of Formula One World Drivers' Champions
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Formula_One_World_Drivers%27_Champions
Summary: The World Drivers' Championship is presented by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), motorsport's world governing body, to the most successful driver over the course of the season of Formula One races, through a points system based on individual race results. The World Championship is awarded at the FIA Prize Giving Ceremony after the season.
Michael Schumacher and Lewis Hamilton hold the record for the most World Drivers' championships—seven—trailed by Juan Manuel Fangio with five. Schumacher holds the record for the most consecutive titles: five, from the 2000 to 2004 seasons. Nigel Mansell competed in the most seasons before winning the title: 13; he entered Formula One in 1980 and won the title in 1992. Nico Rosberg has the highest number of Grand Prix starts before winning his first title: 206, from the 2006 Bahrain and the 2016 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. Sebastian Vettel is the youngest champion; he was 23 years and 134 days old when he won in 2010. Juan Manuel Fangio is the oldest; he was 46 years and 41 days old when he won the 1957 title.
As of the 2026 season, the 76 titles have been won by 35 of the 782 drivers who have started a Grand Prix. The first champion was Giuseppe Farina, in 1950; the current title holder is Lando Norris in the 2025 season. The title has been won by 11 drivers from the United Kingdom a total of 21 times, more than any other nation, followed by Brazil, Finland, and Germany with three drivers each. The title has been won by drivers from Scuderia Ferrari 15 times between 9 drivers, more than any other team, followed by McLaren with 13 titles between 8 drivers. The  championship has been won in the final race of the season 31 times in the 76 seasons it has been awarded. Schumacher won the championship with six races left in a season, a record: the 2002 title at that year's French Grand Prix. The points system has twice crowned a champion—John Surtees in 1964 and Ayrton Senna in 1988—who scored fewer points overall than the driver who finished second. Max Verstappen won the 2023 title with 290 points more than the second-place Sergio Pérez, a record, while Niki Lauda won the 1984 title with the closest gap: 0.5 points over Alain Prost.

Title: 2026 Formula One World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Formula_One_World_Championship
Summary: The 2026 FIA Formula One World Championship is a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and the 77th running of the Formula One World Championship. It is recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the governing body of international motorsport, as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. The championship is contested over twenty-two Grands Prix held around the world. It began in March and is scheduled to end in December. Drivers and teams compete for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion, respectively. Lando Norris is the reigning World Drivers' Champion, while McLaren-Mercedes are the reigning World Constructors' Champions.
The 2026 season features a major set of regulation changes with a revised power unit configuration and new active aerodynamics along with the addition of an eleventh team competing for the first time since 2016. Audi, who acquired Sauber in 2024, enter as a works team with its own power unit, while Cadillac are making their debut in the championship using Ferrari power units. Honda, through its Honda Racing Corporation subsidiary, entered into an exclusive works team agreement with Aston Martin, and are supplying them with their own power unit after ending its relationship with Red Bull Racing. Ford returned to the sport for the first time since 2004, supporting Red Bull Powertrains in supplying power units to Red Bull Racing and Racing Bulls. Renault is no longer an engine supplier as Alpine switched to Mercedes power units.

Title: 2024 Formula One World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Formula_One_World_Championship
Summary: The 2024 FIA Formula One World Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and was the 75th running of the Formula One World Championship. It was recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the governing body of international motorsport, as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. The championship was contested over a record twenty-four Grands Prix held around the world.
Drivers and teams competed for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion, respectively. Defending Drivers' Champion Max Verstappen of Red Bull Racing dominated the opening 10 races with seven wins, however the season as a whole was highly competitive with a record-making six other drivers claiming multiple Grand Prix victories. McLaren driver Lando Norris emerged as Verstappen's closest competitor as the MCL38 began to consistently outperform the RB20. Verstappen maintained his points advantage to win his fourth consecutive Drivers' Championship title at the Las Vegas Grand Prix. Verstappen's title made him only third drivers' champion after Keke Rosberg in 1982 and Nelson Piquet in 1983 to win the drivers' championship with a team that finished 3rd or lower in the constructors' championship, and the second driver after Piquet to win the drivers' championship in a team that did not become constructors' champions on two or more occasions. McLaren surpassed Red Bull and went on to achieve their ninth Constructors' Championship title at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, narrowly ahead of Ferrari by just 14 points. With their first Constructors' Championship victory in 26 years, McLaren became the first constructor other than Red Bull and Mercedes to win the title since Brawn in 2009.

Title: 2026 Formula 2 Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Formula_2_Championship
Summary: The 2026 FIA Formula 2 Championship is a motor racing championship for Formula 2 cars sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The championship is the sixtieth season of Formula 2 racing and the tenth season run under the FIA Formula 2 Championship moniker. Formula 2 is an open-wheel racing category serving as the second tier of formula racing in the FIA Global Pathway. The category is run in support of selected rounds of the 2026 Formula One World Championship. As the championship is a spec series, all teams and drivers competing in the championship run the same car, the Dallara F2 2024.
Invicta Racing entered the championship as the reigning Teams' Champions, having secured their title at the final race of the previous season in Abu Dhabi.