Title: Seoul National University
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul_National_University
Summary: Seoul National University (SNU; Korean: 서울대학교) is a public research university in Seoul, South Korea. Founded in 1946 by the merger of ten institutions in the Seoul area, it is one of the SKY universities and a part of the Flagship Korean National Universities.
The university's main campus is located in Gwanak, and two additional campuses are located in Daehangno and Pyeongchang. The university comprises sixteen colleges, one graduate school and nine professional schools. The student body consists of nearly 16,000 undergraduate and 16,000 graduate students.

Title: Namsan Seoul Tower
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Namsan_Seoul_Tower
Summary: Namsan Seoul Tower (Korean: 남산 서울 타워), also known as the YTN Seoul Tower, Namsan Tower, Seoul Tower or N Seoul Tower, is a communication and observation tower located on the summit of Namsan in central Seoul, South Korea. The 236-metre-tall (774 ft) structure was the nation’s first tower servicing multiple TV and radio broadcasters, and is considered a landmark and symbol of the city.
The tower has gone by different names over time, and continues to have several used by various entities. Namsan Seoul Tower is used by the national and city government — and YTN Seoul Tower by its owner, YTN — to refer to the entire structure, from its base to the top of its antenna. CJ Foodville, the concessionaire operating the observation levels of the tower and the shops and restaurants located on them, markets those under the name N Seoul Tower. Local residents and Korean popular culture tend to use Namsan Tower or Seoul Tower.

Title: University of Seoul
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Seoul
Summary: The University of Seoul is a four-year public comprehensive university in Dongdaemun-gu.
It has its origins as Gyeongseong Public Agricultural School, which opened on May 1, 1918, and is currently the only four-year comprehensive university among public universities in Korea.[3]  It is operated by the Seoul Metropolitan Government, and the mayor of Seoul is responsible for its operation as the chairman of the Seoul University Steering Committee. The University of Seoul comprises 9 colleges, 39 departments, 10 graduate schools, 2 affiliated institutions, and 14 research institutes.

Title: Seoul National University of Science and Technology
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul_National_University_of_Science_and_Technology
Summary: Seoul National University of Science and Technology (abbreviated SeoulTech) is a national university located in Nowon-gu, Seoul, South Korea.
Seoul National University of Science and Technology originated from Public Eoeudong Vocational Continuing School. Later the school was re-organized as Gyeongseong Public Industrial School, Gyeonggi Technical College, and Seoul National University of Technology before it was finally reborn as Seoul National University of Science and Technology in September 2010 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of its foundation. The institution is also known as 'Seoultech'.
Today Seoultech is a large and comprehensive university consisting of six colleges, 23 departments, seven graduate schools and a student enrolment of 11,500 people in a spacious campus of 508,690 square meters (125.70 acres). This is the fifth-largest campus in the universities of Seoul. The campus, formerly occupied by the colleges of engineering of Seoul National University, is in Nowon-gu in the northern part of Seoul. Seoul National University of Science and Technology was ranked second in South Korea and 23rd in Asia in field of focused university in the 2015 by Quacquarelli Symonds (QS)
and ranked 15th in South Korea in the field of Science and Engineering in 2015 by Korea Economic Daily (한국경제신문).

Title: Our Unwritten Seoul
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Our_Unwritten_Seoul
Summary: Our Unwritten Seoul (Korean: 미지의 서울) is a 2025 South Korean television series starring Park Bo-young, Park Jin-young, and Ryu Kyung-soo. It aired on tvN from May 24, to June 29, 2025, every Saturday and Sunday at 21:20 (KST). It is available for streaming on Netflix.