Title: Demographics of Italy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demographics_of_Italy
Summary: The demography of Italy is monitored by the Italian National Institute of Statistics (Istat).
At the beginning of 2024, Italy had an estimated population of 58.9 million. Its population density, at 195.7 inhabitants per square kilometre (507/sq mi), is higher than both the EU (106.6/km2) and European (72.9/km2) average. The geographic distribution of the population is very uneven. The most densely populated areas are the Po Valley in northern Italy, with about a third of Italy's population,  and the metropolitan areas of Rome and Naples in central and southern Italy. Landlocked, rural and mountainous areas are very sparsely populated, notably the Alps and Apennines ranges, the plateaus of Basilicata and Puglia, the inland highlands of Sicily and the Mediterranean island of Sardinia.
Italy's population almost doubled during the 20th century. The pattern of growth was extremely uneven due to large-scale internal migration from the impoverished, largely rural South to the industrial cities of the North, especially during the Italian economic miracle of the 1950s and 1960s. After decades of net emigration, since the late 1980s Italy has experienced large-scale international immigration. As a result, in 2024 there were 5.4 million foreign-born residents in Italy, or about 9.2% of Italy's total population.
High fertility and birth rates persisted through the 1970s, then declined sharply in the 1980s and 1990s, leading to rapid population aging. At the end of the 2000s, one in five Italians was over 65 years old. In 2024, Italy's total fertility rate was 1.18, well below the EU average (1.38) and one of the lowest in the world.
Since the revision of the Lateran Treaty in 1984, Italy has no official religion, although the Catholic Church enjoys a privileged legal status and plays a prominent role in Italian society and politics. In 2017, 78% of the population identified as Catholic, 15% as non-believers or atheists, 2% as other Christians and 6% adhered to other religions.

Title: Milan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milan
Summary: Milan is the capital and largest city of the region of Lombardy, in northern Italy, and the seat of the Metropolitan City of Milan. It is the second-largest city in Italy after the country’s capital, Rome, with a population of 1,362,863 in 2026. The city's wider metropolitan area is the largest in Italy, and the fourth-largest in the European Union, with an estimated population of 6.55 million. Milan is considered Italy's economic capital, and its metropolitan area accounts for about 20% of the country's GDP.
Founded around 590 BC by a Celtic tribe, Milan was conquered by the Romans in 222 BC, who Latinized the name of the city into Mediolanum. From AD 284 to 402, it served as capital of the western part of the Roman Empire. In the Late Medieval period, the wealthy Duchy of Milan was one of the greatest forces behind the Renaissance. As a  major center of the Italian Enlightenment during the Early modern period, Milan's cultural and political struggle against Austrian domination was crucial in the reunification of the Kingdom of Italy. From the 19th century onwards, Milan led the industrial and financial development of Italy.
Milan is a major international center of industry, finance, science, communications, fashion, art and tourism. Milan was classified as an "Alpha" city by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network. Milan's business district hosts Borsa Italiana, Italy's main stock exchange (part of the Euronext consortium, the world's sixth-largest by market capitalization) and the headquarters of numerous national corporations, including eight Fortune 500 Europe companies. As of 2023, Milan and its special metropolitan authority have the largest GDP and the highest per-capita GDP of any Italian province.
Milan is a global fashion capital and a major international tourist destination, being one of the most visited cities in the world, ranked second in Italy after Rome, fifth in Europe and sixteenth in the world. The city is a major cultural center, with museums and art galleries that feature some of the most important collections in the world, including major works by Leonardo da Vinci. Milan hosts numerous educational institutions, including academies and universities that account for 11% of the national total of enrolled students. Milan hosts several international events and fairs, including Milan Fashion Week and the Milan Furniture Fair, which are among the world's largest in terms of revenue, visitors and growth. Milan has many luxury hotels and is the fifth most starred in the world by Michelin Guide. It hosted the Universal Exposition in 1906 and 2015. In the field of sports, Milan is home to two of Europe's most successful football teams, AC Milan and Internazionale Milano (Inter Milan), and one of Europe's main basketball teams, Olimpia Milano. The city also co-hosted the Winter Olympic and Paralympic games in 2026.

Title: List of metropolitan areas in Europe
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_metropolitan_areas_in_Europe
Summary: This list ranks metropolitan areas in Europe by their population according to three different sources; it includes metropolitan areas that have a population of over 1 million.

Title: List of cities in the European Union by population within city limits
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_in_the_European_Union_by_population_within_city_limits
Summary: This is a list of the largest cities in the European Union according to the population within their city boundary. The cities listed all have populations over 300,000. The list deals exclusively with the areas within city administrative boundaries as opposed to urban areas or larger urban zones (metropolitan areas), which are generally larger in terms of population than the main city (although they can also be smaller).
As some cities have a very narrow boundary and others a very wide one, the list may not give an accurate view of the comparative magnitude of entire urban areas, and thus the figures in the list should be treated with caution. Common examples of confusion are Paris, where the Paris metropolitan area has different boundaries than the city proper, the City of Brussels that is confused with the Brussels-Capital Region, and Portuguese municipalities, where the population of the municipality's core may be significantly lower than the total population within its boundaries.

Title: List of European cities by population within city limits
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_European_cities_by_population_within_city_limits
Summary: This list ranks European cities by population within city limits. The largest cities in Europe have official populations of over one million inhabitants within their city boundaries. These rankings are based on populations contained within city administrative boundaries, as opposed to urban areas or metropolitan areas, which necessarily have larger populations than the cities at their core.
The limits of a city proper can differ greatly from the size of the city's urban area, so the figures in this list may not give an accurate view of the comparative population of different urban areas and should be treated with caution. For example, the Paris metropolitan area is the fourth most populous in Europe, but the strict definition of the administrative limits of the City of Paris results in a far lower population.