Title: Tokyo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tokyo
Summary: Tokyo, officially the Tokyo Metropolis, is the capital and most populous city of Japan. The population of the city proper was over 14 million as of 2023. The Greater Tokyo Area, which includes Tokyo and parts of six neighboring prefectures, is the third-most populous metropolitan area in the world, with 33 million residents as of 2025.
Lying at the head of Tokyo Bay, Tokyo is part of the Kantō region, on the central coast of Honshu, Japan's largest island. It is Japan's economic center and the seat of the Japanese government and the Emperor of Japan. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government administers Tokyo's central 23 special wards, which formerly made up Tokyo City; various commuter towns and suburbs in its western area; and two outlying island chains, the Tokyo Islands. Although most of the world recognizes Tokyo as a city, since 1943 its governing structure has been more akin to that of a prefecture, with an accompanying Governor and Assembly taking precedence over the smaller municipal governments that make up the metropolis. Special wards in Tokyo include Chiyoda, the site of the National Diet Building and the Tokyo Imperial Palace; Shinjuku, the city's administrative center; and Shibuya, a hub of commerce and business.
Tokyo, originally known as Edo, rose to political prominence in 1603 when it became the seat of the Tokugawa shogunate, and by the mid-18th century, Edo had evolved from a small fishing village into one of the largest cities in the world, with a population surpassing one million. After the Meiji Restoration (1868), the imperial capital in Kyoto was moved to Edo, and the city was renamed Tokyo (lit. 'Eastern Capital'). Tokyo was greatly damaged by the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake and by Allied bombing raids during World War II. Beginning in the late 1940s, Tokyo underwent rapid reconstruction and expansion, which fueled the Japanese economic miracle, in which Japan's economy became the second-largest in the world at the time, behind that of the United States. As of 2025, Tokyo is home to 26 of the world's 500 largest companies, as listed in the annual Fortune Global 500.
Tokyo was the first city in Asia to host the Summer Olympics and Paralympics, in 1964, and also hosted in 2021. It hosted three G7 summits in 1979, 1986, and 1993. Tokyo is an international hub of research and development and an academic center, with several major universities, including the University of Tokyo, the top-ranking university in Japan. Tokyo Station is the central hub for the Shinkansen, the country's high-speed railway network, and the city's Shinjuku Station is the world's busiest train station. Tokyo Skytree is the world's tallest tower. The Tokyo Metro Ginza Line, which opened in 1927, is the oldest underground metro line in Asia.
Tokyo's nominal gross domestic output was 120.2 trillion yen (US$887.9 billion) in FY2022 and accounted for 21.2% of Japan's economic output, which converts to 8.43 million yen or US$62,291 per capita. Including the Greater Tokyo Area, Tokyo is the second-largest metropolitan economy in the world after New York, with a 2022 gross metropolitan product estimated at US$2.08 trillion. Although Tokyo's status as a leading global financial hub has diminished with the Lost Decades since the 1990s, when the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) was the world's largest, with a market capitalization about 1.5 times that of the NYSE, Tokyo is still a leading financial hub, and the TSE remains among the world's top five major stock exchanges. Tokyo is categorized as an Alpha+ city by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network. It ranked 14th in the 2024 edition of the Global Livability Ranking, and has been ranked as the safest city in the world by the Economist Intelligence Unit.

Title: Tokyo Metro
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tokyo_Metro
Summary: The Tokyo Metro (Japanese: 東京メトロ) is a major rapid transit system in Tokyo, Japan, operated by the Tokyo Metro Co., Ltd. The system opened in 1927 as the Tokyo Underground Railway, becoming the first subway system in Asia. It is the larger of Tokyo's two subway operators, with an average daily ridership of 6.52 million; the other operator, the Toei Subway, carries approximately 2.85 million passengers per day as of 2023.
Tokyo Metro Co., Ltd. is a special company established on April 1, 2004, through the privatization of the Teito Rapid Transit Authority (TRTA). Tokyo Metro operates a network comprising 9 distinct subway lines and 11 routes with 180 stations totaling 195.0 km (121.2 mi). Eight of these lines were inherited directly from the TRTA, including the historic Ginza Line which was once operated by Tokyo Underground Railway and the Tokyo Rapid Railway. The ninth line, the Fukutoshin Line, opened in 2008 after the launch of the new private company.
The company has been a member of the Japan Private Railway Association and it is formally recognized as Japan's 16th major private railway company.
Operating exclusively within Tokyo and Tokyo metropolitan area with massive commuter and student populations, Tokyo Metro owns and manages nine essential subway lines, leading all other major private railways in total number of train carriages, railway operating revenue, and annual passenger numbers.
Tokyo Metro Co., Ltd. was initially wholly owned by the Japanese government specifically the Minister of Finance and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. Following a public offering where half of the shares were sold to private investors, the company was listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's Prime Market on October 23, 2024. The company was scheduled to be listed on the stock exchange following the opening of the Fukutoshin Line on June 14, 2008. However, after several postponements it was finally listed on October 23, 2024, becoming a public company.  Although the company initially aimed for full privatization, even after the 2024 listing, the national government (nominally the Minister of Finance) and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government continue to hold a combined 50% of the shares, meaning the company remains a special company subject to the Tokyo Metro Co., Ltd. Act.
The proceeds from the sale of the government-owned shares will be allocated to the reconstruction budget for the Great East Japan Earthquake, while the proceeds from the sale of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government-owned shares will be used to fund railway network strengthening projects such as subway extensions for the Namboku and Yurakucho Lines and urban resilience projects like disaster prevention measures.
Among the 23 special wards of Tokyo, only Ōta, Setagaya, and Katsushika lack Tokyo Metro lines or stations. Despite this, Tokyo Metro provides service to all three wards through through-running arrangements with other operators.

Title: Ginza Line
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ginza_Line
Summary: The Ginza Line (銀座線, Ginza-sen), officially designated as Line 3 Ginza Line (3号線銀座線, San-gō-sen Ginza-sen), is a subway line in Tokyo, Japan, operated by Tokyo Metro.  The line spans 14.3 km (8.9 mi) and serves the wards of Shibuya, Minato, Chūō, Chiyoda, and Taitō.
It is the oldest subway line in Asia, opening in 1927 and originally operated by the Tokyo Underground Railway, later jointly operated with the Tokyo Rapid Railway.
The line is named after the Ginza commercial district in Chūō, through which it passes. On maps, diagrams, and signage, the line is color-coded orange, and its stations are identified by the letter "G" followed by a specific number.

Title: Tokyo subway sarin attack
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tokyo_subway_sarin_attack
Summary: The Tokyo subway sarin attack (Japanese: 地下鉄サリン事件, Hepburn: Chikatetsu sarin jiken; lit. 'subway sarin incident') was a domestic chemical terrorist attack perpetrated on 20 March 1995, in Tokyo, Japan, by members of the Aum Shinrikyo cult. In five coordinated attacks, the perpetrators released sarin, a nerve agent, on three lines of the Tokyo Metro (then Teito Rapid Transit Authority) during rush hour, killing 14 people, severely injuring 50 (some of whom later died), and causing temporary vision problems for nearly 1,000 others. The attack was directed against trains passing through Kasumigaseki and Nagatachō, where the National Diet (Japanese parliament) is headquartered in Tokyo.
The group, led by Shoko Asahara, had already carried out several assassinations and terrorist attacks using sarin, including the Matsumoto sarin attack nine months earlier. They had also produced several other nerve agents, including VX for assassination attempts, and attempted to produce Bacillus anthracis and botulinum toxin for bioterrorism. Asahara had been made aware of a police raid scheduled for 22 March and had planned the Tokyo subway attack in order to hinder police investigations into the cult and perhaps spark the apocalypse the leader of the group had prophesied.
In the raid following the attack, police arrested many senior members of the cult. Police activity continued throughout the summer, and over 200 members were arrested, including Asahara. Thirteen of the senior Aum management, including Asahara himself, were sentenced to death and later executed; many others were given prison sentences up to life. As of 2026 the attack remains the deadliest modern incident defined as terrorism in Japan.

Title: Tokyo Metro (company)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tokyo_Metro_(company)
Summary: The Tokyo Metro Co., Ltd. (Japanese: 東京地下鉄株式会社, Hepburn: Tōkyō Chikatetsu kabushiki gaisha; lit. 'Tokyo Subway Share Company') is a tokushu gaisha (state-owned joint-stock company) jointly controlled by the Government of Japan and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. It operates nine subway lines and is also engaged in real estate, retail and education in the Greater Tokyo Area.
Tokyo Metro was privatized and established as a private company on April 1, 2004, succeeding Teito Rapid Transit Authority (TRTA) and shifting to a more commercial model while maintaining public service obligations.
In 2024, the company made its initial public offering, raising $2.3 billion in what became Japan's biggest IPO since 2018. Tokyo Metro was listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, debuting as the exchange's largest IPO in six years and with a market capitalization of roughly 1 trillion yen. The Government of Japan and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government each sold half of their shares, with the former using the proceeds to repay bonds funding reconstruction after the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.