Title: European Cup and UEFA Champions League records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Cup_and_UEFA_Champions_League_records_and_statistics
Summary: This page details statistics of all seasons of the European Cup and Champions League. These statistics do not include the qualifying rounds of the UEFA Champions League, unless otherwise noted.

Title: Pepe (footballer, born February 1983)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pepe_(footballer,_born_February_1983)
Summary: Kepler Laveran de Lima Ferreira ComM (born 26 February 1983), known as Pepe (Brazilian Portuguese: [ˈpɛpi], European Portuguese: [ˈpɛpɨ]), is a former professional footballer who played as a centre-back. He is regarded as one of the greatest defenders of his generation.
Born and raised in Brazil, Pepe moved to Portugal to sign with Marítimo, before moving to Porto in 2004. During his first Porto stint, he won two Primeira Liga titles, two Taças de Portugal and the Intercontinental Cup. Three years later, he moved to Real Madrid and went on to become a mainstay for the club, winning fifteen major honours, including three La Liga titles, two FIFA Club World Cup titles, two Copa del Rey titles and three UEFA Champions League titles, playing a crucial part in all three UEFA Champions League wins. Out of contract, Pepe signed with Turkish club Beşiktaş in 2017, before returning to Porto in 2019. In his final stint with the Dragões, he won a further two league titles, four Taças de Portugal and a Taça da Liga.
Internationally, Pepe opted to play for Portugal, representing the nation at four FIFA World Cups and five UEFA European Championships. He won the UEFA Euro 2016 title in France, being named player of the match in the final, and was named in the UEFA Euro Team of the Tournament in 2008, 2012 and 2016. He also won the inaugural UEFA Nations League in 2019. Between his debut in 2007 and 2024, Pepe earned 141 caps.

Title: UEFA Euro 2024
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Euro_2024
Summary: The 2024 UEFA European Football Championship, commonly referred to as UEFA Euro 2024 or simply Euro 2024, was the 17th UEFA European Championship, the quadrennial international football championship organised by UEFA for the European men's national teams of their member associations. Germany hosted the tournament, which took place from 14 June to 14 July 2024. The tournament involved 24 teams. 
It was the third time that European Championship matches were played on German territory and the second time in reunified Germany, as West Germany hosted the 1988 tournament, and four matches of the multi-national Euro 2020 were played in Munich. It was the first time the competition was held in what was formerly East Germany, with Leipzig as a host city, as well as the first major tournament since the 2006 FIFA World Cup that Germany served as a solo host nation. The tournament returned to its usual four-year cycle after the 2020 edition was postponed to 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Georgia made their tournament debut. Italy were the defending champion, having won the 2020 final against England on penalties, but failed to defend the title after being eliminated by Switzerland in the round of 16. Host nation Germany were eliminated by Spain in the quarter-finals; Spain went on to win the tournament for a record fourth time after defeating England 2–1 in the final.

Title: UEFA Euro 2024 squads
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Euro_2024_squads
Summary: UEFA Euro 2024 was an international football tournament held in Germany that took place from 14 June to 14 July 2024. The 24 national teams involved in the tournament were required to register a squad of 23 to 26 players – of which three had to be goalkeepers – by 7 June 2024, 23:59 CEST (UTC+2), seven days prior to the opening match of the tournament. Only players in these squads were eligible to take part in the tournament. IInitially, regulations required teams to consist of 23 players, but this was amended by UEFA Executive Committee on 3 May 2024.
In the event that a player on the submitted squad list suffered from an injury or illness prior to his team's first match of the tournament, that player could be replaced, provided that the team doctor and a doctor from the UEFA Medical Committee both confirmed that the injury or illness was severe enough to prevent the player from participating in the tournament. If a goalkeeper had suffered from an injury or illness after his team's first tournament match, he could still be replaced, even if the other goalkeepers from the squad were still available. A player who had been replaced on the player list could not be readmitted to the list.
The position listed for each player is per the official squad lists published by UEFA. The age listed for each player is their age as of 14 June 2024, the first day of the tournament. The numbers of caps and goals listed for them do not include any matches played after the start of the tournament. The club listed is the club for which the player last played a competitive match prior to the tournament. The nationality for each club reflects the national association (not the league) to which the club is affiliated. A flag is included for coaches who are of a different nationality to their team.

Title: UEFA Women's Euro 2025 squads
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UEFA_Women%27s_Euro_2025_squads
Summary: The UEFA Women's Euro 2025 was an international women's association football tournament held in Switzerland from 2 to 27 July 2025. The 16 national teams involved in the tournament were required to register a squad of 23 players, including three goalkeepers. Only players in these squads were eligible to take part in the tournament. If a player became seriously injured or ill prior to the tournament as assessed by both their team doctor and a doctor from the UEFA Medical Committee, they could be replaced in the squad prior to their first match. Each team was required to submit their squad list by 25 June.
The age listed for each player is on 2 July 2025, the first day of the tournament. The numbers of caps and goals listed for each player do not include any matches played after the start of the tournament. The club listed is the club for which the player last played a competitive match prior to the tournament. A flag is included for coaches who are of a different nationality than their own national team.