Title: Lee Kyu-hyung
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Kyu-hyung
Summary: Lee Kyu-hyung (Korean: 이규형; born November 29, 1983) is a South Korean actor. Though primarily a musical actor, Lee has also appeared in a variety of Korean films and dramas. In 2017, Lee shot to fame with his portrayal of Yoo Han-yang in tvN's television series Prison Playbook (2017). He is well known for portraying a wide spectrum of roles on stage and screen.

Title: Han Byung-do
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Han_Byung-do
Summary: Han Byung-do (Korean: 한병도; Hanja: 韓秉道; born 7 December 1967) is a South Korean politician who has served as the floor leader of the Democratic Party  of Korea (DPK) since 2026. He briefly served as and acting leader of the DPK in 2026. He has represented Iksan in the National Assembly since 2020 and previously served as the Senior Secretary to the President Moon Jae-in for Political Affairs.
In 2004 Han was elected as member of the National Assembly from Iksan becoming the youngest member elected in this election at the age of 37. Han convinced President Roh Moo-hyun to accept the honorary doctorate degree in politics from Han's alma mater, Wonkwang University. This is the one of three degrees Roh has from tertiary education - all honorary as Roh never went to college - and the only one from Korean university. Han was previously the president of its student union.
In 2016 he lost his election to Cho Bae-sook. Upon beginning of the President Moon Jae-in's presidency, he was appointed as his secretary for political affairs. Later that year, Han was promoted to a senior secretary, a vice-ministerial position. Han resigned the post for the 2020 South Korean legislative election. In that election, he defeated Cho who served three times as his constituency's representative and previously defeated him four years ago.
Han holds a bachelor's degree in communications from Wonkwang University.

Title: XO, Kitty
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XO,_Kitty
Summary: XO, Kitty is an American romantic comedy drama television series created by Jenny Han, who also serves as writer and executive producer in addition to being a showrunner, which premiered on Netflix on May 18, 2023. It is a spin-off of the To All the Boys film series (itself an adaptation of Han's book trilogy To All the Boys I've Loved Before), and marks the first Netflix television series to be spun off from a Netflix original film.
The series stars Anna Cathcart, who reprises the title role as Kitty Song-Covey, a high school student and the younger sister of Lara Jean Song-Covey – the central character from the film series. Kitty goes on her own journey to learn about her late mother’s alma mater and experience friendship and romance.
In June 2023, the series was renewed for a second season, which premiered on January 16, 2025. In February 2025, the series was renewed for a third season, which premiered on April 2, 2026.

Title: Kang Jung-ai
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kang_Jung-ai
Summary: Kang Jung-ae (Korean: 강정애, born 5 May 1957) is a South Korean professor and politician who served as the minister of patriots and veterans affairs from 2023 to 2025. She majored in business administration at Sookmyung Women's University and received a Ph.D. in human resources economics from Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbon University.
She became a professor at her alma mater in 1988 and served as its president from 2016 to 2020. Kang served as a member of the Presidential Committee on Regulatory Reform and the National Economic Advisory Council during the conservative Lee Myung Bak government. In December 2023, President Yoon nominated Kan to be the Minister of Patriots and Veterans Affairs whicg was officially confirmed by the National Assembly on 26 December, thus becoming the second woman to hold that position.
On 4 April 2025, following President Yoon Suk Yeol's impeachment, Kang retained her role under acting presidents Han Duck-soo and Lee Ju-ho and even after Lee Jae Myung's inauguration on 4 June following the presidential election held the previous day, Kang stayed on her role due to Lee turning down most of the Yoon cabinet ministers resignations until Lee's cabinet is officially sworn in.

Title: Chungam High School
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chungam_High_School
Summary: Chungam High School (Korean: 충암고등학교; Hanja: 冲岩高等學校) is a private all-boys high school located in Eungam-dong, Eunpyeong District, Seoul, South Korea.