Title: O'Hare International Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/O%27Hare_International_Airport
Summary: Chicago O'Hare International Airport (IATA: ORD, ICAO: KORD, FAA LID: ORD) is the primary international airport serving Chicago, Illinois, United States, located on the city's Northwest Side, approximately 17 miles (27 km) northwest of downtown. The airport is operated by the Chicago Department of Aviation and covers 7,627 acres (11.92 sq mi; 30.87 km2). It is the airport with the most runways in the world, with eight.
Designed to be the successor to Chicago's Midway International Airport, itself once nicknamed the "busiest square mile in the world", O'Hare began as an airfield serving a Douglas manufacturing plant for C-54 military transports during World War II. It was renamed Orchard Field Airport in the mid-1940s and assigned the IATA code ORD. In 1949, it was renamed after aviator Edward "Butch" O'Hare, the U.S. Navy's first Medal of Honor recipient during World War II. As the first major airport planned after World War II, O'Hare's innovative design pioneered concepts such as concourses, direct highway access to the terminal, jet bridges, and underground refueling systems.
O'Hare became famous during the jet age, holding the distinction as the world's busiest airport by passenger traffic from 1963 to 1998. It still ranks as one of the busiest airports in the world, according to the Airports Council International rankings. In 2025, O'Hare had more than 857,000 aircraft movements, averaging 2,340 per day, the most of any airport in the world. O'Hare has non-stop flights to 249 destinations in North America, South America, the Caribbean, Europe, Africa, Asia, Oceania, the Middle East and the North Atlantic region as of summer 2024. As of 2024, O'Hare is considered the most connected airport in the United States, and fifth most connected airport in the world.
On the ground, road access to the airport is offered by airport shuttle, bus, the Chicago "L", or taxis. The Kennedy Expressway goes directly into the airport. O'Hare is a hub for American Airlines and United Airlines (which is headquartered in Willis Tower), as well as an operating base for Frontier Airlines.

Title: Montréal–Trudeau International Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Montr%C3%A9al%E2%80%93Trudeau_International_Airport
Summary: Montréal–Trudeau International Airport (IATA: YUL, ICAO: CYUL) (French: Aéroport International Montréal-Trudeau) or Montréal–Trudeau, formerly known and still commonly referred to as Montréal–Dorval International Airport (Aéroport international Montréal-Dorval), is an international airport straddling the border of Dorval and Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It is the only Transport Canada designated international airport serving Montreal and is situated 15 km (9.3 mi) west of Downtown Montreal. The airport terminals are located entirely in the suburb of Dorval, while one runway is located in the Montreal borough of Saint-Laurent. Air Canada, the country's flag carrier, also has its corporate headquarters complex on the Saint-Laurent side of the airport. It also serves Greater Montreal and adjacent regions in Quebec and eastern Ontario, as well as the states of Vermont and northern New York in the United States. The airport is named in honour of Pierre Trudeau (1919–2000), the 15th Prime Minister of Canada.
The airport is one of two managed and operated by Aéroports de Montréal (ADM), a not-for-profit corporation without share capital; the other is Montréal–Mirabel northwest of Montreal, which was initially intended to replace the one in Dorval but now deals almost solely with cargo and private flights. Montréal–Trudeau is owned by Transport Canada which has a 60-year lease with Aéroports de Montréal, as per Canada's National Airport Policy of 1994.
Trudeau is the busiest airport in the province of Quebec and the third-busiest airport in Canada by passenger traffic, with 22.4 million passengers in 2025. It is one of nine Canadian airports with United States border preclearance and is one of the main gateways into Canada with 15.79 million or 71% of its passengers being on non-domestic flights, the highest proportion amongst Canada's airports. YUL has also risen to become the 5th busiest transatlantic hub in North America. The route between Montreal and Paris is Canada's busiest international route and the 6th busiest international route from North America, with more than 1.5 million passengers a year. It is one of three Air Canada hubs and, in that capacity, serves mainly Quebec, the Atlantic Provinces and Eastern Ontario. On an average day, 58,000 passengers transit through Montréal-Trudeau.
Airlines servicing Trudeau offer year-round non-stop flights to five continents, namely Africa, Asia, Europe, North and South America. It is one of only two airports in Canada with non-stop flights to five continents, the other being Toronto Pearson International Airport. Trudeau airport is the headquarters of and a large hub for Air Canada, the country's largest airline. It is also the headquarters of Air Inuit and Air Transat, and an operation base for Porter Airlines. It also plays a role in general aviation as home to the headquarters of Innotech-Execair, Starlink, ACASS and Maintenance Repair & Overhaul (MRO) facilities of Air Transat and Air Inuit. Transport Canada operates a Civil Aviation Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul facility on site, with a fleet of Government owned and operated civil aircraft. Bombardier Aerospace has an assembly facility on site where they build Global and Challenger business jets.

Title: Montréal–Mirabel International Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Montr%C3%A9al%E2%80%93Mirabel_International_Airport
Summary: Montréal–Mirabel International Airport (IATA: YMX, ICAO: CYMX), originally called Montréal International Airport, widely known as Mirabel and branded as YMX International Aerocity of Mirabel, is a cargo and former international passenger airport in Mirabel, Quebec, Canada, 21 nautical miles (39 km; 24 mi) northwest of Montreal. It opened on October 4, 1975, and the last commercial passenger flight took off on October 31, 2004.
The airport is mainly used for cargo flights, but it is also home to medevac and general aviation flights, and hosts a manufacturing plant for Airbus, where final assembly of the Airbus A220 (formerly Bombardier CSeries) is conducted. Bombardier Aviation produced the Bombardier CRJ700 series of regional jets at the factory until early 2021. The former passenger terminal apron is now a racing course, and the terminal building was demolished in 2016.
Prior to the demolition of the passenger terminal, Montréal–Mirabel International Airport was classified as an airport of entry (AOE) by Nav Canada and was staffed by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA). A smaller AOE for general aviation with no more than 15 people on board is still available from Hélibellule, Nolinor, and Mirajet. In addition it is one of ten Canadian airport classified as an airport of entry for cargo flights. It is part of the National Airports System and it was one of two airports in Canada with sufficient right-of-way that can be expanded to accommodate 50 million passengers per year, the other being Toronto Pearson International Airport. A lack of traffic meant that Mirabel was never expanded beyond its first phase. As a result of a controversial land expropriation, Mirabel would have been the largest airport in the world by surface area, with a planned area spanning a property totaling 39,660 hectares (396.6 km2; 98,000 acres). In 1989, 32,780 hectares (81,000 acres) of that were deeded back to their original owners.
The airport was intended to replace the existing Dorval Airport as the eastern air gateway to Canada. Accordingly, from 1975 to 1997, all international flights to and from Montreal (except for flights to and from the United States) were required to use Mirabel. Mirabel's distant location, its inadequate transport links to urban centres, and the continued operation of domestic flights from Dorval Airport made Mirabel very unpopular with travellers and airlines. It did not help that Montreal's economy declined relative to that of Toronto during the 1970s and 1980s, while newer long-range airliners no longer needed to refuel in Montreal prior to trans-Atlantic flights, so passenger levels never approached the levels that had been anticipated. The original plan to eventually close Dorval was discarded, and Mirabel thus turned out to be a white elephant.
A decision was made to consolidate Montreal's passenger traffic at Dorval, with scheduled flights and charter flights being shifted in 1997 and 2004, so Mirabel was relegated to the role of a cargo airport. In 2004, Dorval Airport was renamed Montréal–Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport, after the Canadian prime minister whose government initiated the Mirabel project, the aim of which was to close and replace the Dorval airport. During the 2000s, Dorval was renovated and expanded, which enabled it to handle the passenger levels that the Trudeau government initially claimed would require two airports. Between 2008 and 2018, Mirabel's air traffic more than tripled due to the use of private passenger flights, helicopter flights and flight schools, leading to Aéroports de Montréal renaming the airport to YMX International Aerocity of Mirabel to emphasize it as a business facility.

Title: Pierre Poilievre
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pierre_Poilievre
Summary: Pierre Marcel Poilievre (born June 3, 1979) is a Canadian politician who has served as the leader of the Conservative Party and leader of the Official Opposition since 2022. First elected in 2004, he has been the member of Parliament (MP) for Battle River—Crowfoot since August 2025, and previously represented Carleton until his defeat in April 2025.
Poilievre was born and raised in Calgary, Alberta, and moved to Ottawa in 2000 to work for Canadian Alliance leader Stockwell Day. He was first elected in the 2004 federal election, initially representing the riding of Nepean—Carleton before it was reconfigured as Carleton. In 2008, Poilievre graduated with a bachelor's degree in international relations from the University of Calgary. Under Prime Minister Stephen Harper, he held various parliamentary secretary roles from 2006 to 2013 before serving as minister for democratic reform from 2013 to 2015 and concurrently as minister of employment and social development in 2015. From 2017 to 2022, he was the Conservative Party's shadow minister for finance and was briefly shadow minister for jobs and industry.
Poilievre ran in the 2022 Conservative Party leadership election, winning a landslide on the first ballot. As leader of the Opposition, Poilievre has primarily focused on economic issues, especially the cost of living in Canada. His policy positions include reducing the budget deficit, cutting personal income taxes, defunding the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC), and repealing what he describes as "anti-energy" laws, including the federal carbon tax on both consumers and industries. He is considered to be part of the Blue Tory faction within the Conservative Party, and has been described as a populist.
Poilievre led the Conservative Party in the 2025 federal election. The Conservatives held a large polling lead in the run-up to the election until the resignation of Justin Trudeau and rhetoric from President Donald Trump calling for Canada to become the 51st state. The party increased their seat total from 120 to 144 seats and achieved the largest share of the popular vote since its founding in 2003; however, Poilievre lost his seat to Liberal candidate Bruce Fanjoy, and the governing Liberal Party led by Mark Carney was re-elected with a minority government. After losing his seat in Carleton, Poilievre contested the riding of Battle River—Crowfoot in Alberta, where a by-election was triggered following the resignation of Conservative MP Damien Kurek. Poilievre won the by-election on August 18.

Title: Ottawa Macdonald–Cartier International Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ottawa_Macdonald%E2%80%93Cartier_International_Airport
Summary: Ottawa/Macdonald–Cartier International Airport (IATA: YOW, ICAO: CYOW) or simply Ottawa International Airport is the main international airport serving the National Capital Region of Canada which contains the cities of Ottawa, Ontario and Gatineau, Quebec. Located 8 nautical miles (15 km; 9.2 mi) south of downtown Ottawa in the south end of the city, it is Canada's sixth-busiest airport, Ontario's second-busiest airport by airline passenger traffic, with 4,866,236 passengers in 2025. The airport is a major hub for Porter Airlines, a focus city for Air Canada and Air Transat and a home base for Canadian North (formerly First Air). The airport is named after the Canadian statesmen and two of the "founding fathers of Canada", Sir John A. Macdonald and Sir George-Étienne Cartier. 
It is classified as an airport of entry by Nav Canada, and is staffed by the Canada Border Services Agency, it is one of nine Canadian airports that contain U.S border preclearance facilities. The airport was formerly a military base known as CFB Ottawa South/CFB Uplands, and is still home to the Royal Canadian Air Force's (RCAF) 412 Transport Squadron, which provides air transport for Canadian and foreign government officials.