Title: ÷ (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%B7_(album)
Summary: ÷ (Divide) is the third studio album by English singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran. It was released on 3 March 2017 through Asylum Records and Atlantic Records. "Castle on the Hill" and "Shape of You" were released as the album's lead singles on 6 January 2017. The album won the Grammy Award for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards. As of March 2024, the deluxe version of the album is the second most streamed album of all time on Spotify.
The album was number one in the United Kingdom, selling 672,000 copies in its first week, making it the fastest-selling album by a male solo artist there and the highest opening behind Adele's 25 and Oasis' Be Here Now. ÷ topped the charts in over 25 territories across the globe, including the United States, Canada, and Australia. In April 2018, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry named ÷ the best-selling album worldwide of the year. In October 2019, it was ranked the fifth best-selling album of the 21st century in the UK.
All the tracks on the album reached the top 20 of the UK Singles Chart in the week of the album's release. The dominance of its tracks on the UK chart led to calls for change on how the singles chart is compiled, and the Official Charts Company then introduced new rules limiting tracks eligible for entry in the top 100 to three per artist, as well as adjusting the streams-to-sales ratio for older songs. His fourth single from ÷, "Perfect", reached number one in the US, Australia and the UK, where it became the Christmas number one of 2017.
To promote the album, Sheeran embarked on a worldwide concert tour, entitled the ÷ Tour. Comprising 260 shows, it started on 16 March 2017 and ended on 26 August 2019 with the last of four homecoming gigs in Ipswich, Suffolk. By August 2019, it had become the biggest, most attended, and highest-grossing tour of all time.

Title: Jimin
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jimin
Summary: Park Ji-min (Korean: 박지민; born October 13, 1995), known mononymously as Jimin, is a South Korean singer, songwriter, and dancer. In 2013, he made his debut as a member of the South Korean boy band BTS, under the record label Big Hit Entertainment. Jimin has released three solo tracks under BTS' name—"Lie" in 2016, "Serendipity" in 2017, and "Filter" in 2020—all of which have charted on South Korea's Gaon Digital Chart.
He released his first credited solo song, the digital track "Promise", which he co-wrote, in 2018 and recorded the duet "With You" with Ha Sung-woon for the soundtrack for the TvN drama Our Blues in 2022. Jimin released his debut solo album, Face in 2023, which debuted at number one in South Korea and Japan and number two on the US Billboard 200, making him the highest-charting Korean solo artist on the latter chart. The album's single "Like Crazy" became the first song by a Korean solo artist to debut at number one on the US Billboard Hot 100 in history. Jimin also became the first Korean solo artist to top the Billboard Artist 100 chart. In 2024, he released his second album, Muse, and its lead single "Who", which debuted at number one on the Billboard Global 200.

Title: Seven (Jung Kook song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seven_(Jung_Kook_song)
Summary: "Seven" is a song by South Korean singer Jung Kook of BTS featuring American rapper Latto, released as a single on July 14, 2023, through Big Hit Music. It was produced by Andrew Watt and Cirkut who co-wrote it with Jon Bellion, Latto, and Theron Makiel Thomas. The song is a romantic UK garage pop track about wanting to spend all of one's time with one's lover. An explicit version was also released, and later included on Jungkook's debut studio album Golden.
The single entered music charts in over fifty territories and topped rankings in India, Latvia, Malaysia, and Singapore. It debuted atop the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States and the Global 200, becoming both Jungkook and Latto's first number-one. It also topped Billboard's Hits of the World charts in Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam, South Korea, Philippines, and Taiwan.
"Seven" debuted at number three on the UK Singles Chart and set a new record as the highest debuting single by a solo Korean act in history. Elsewhere, it charted in the top ten in Australia, Canada, Ireland, Japan, Lithuania, Peru, Paraguay, New Zealand, South Korea, and Switzerland. It also broke the record for the fastest song in history to surpass one billion streams on Spotify and eventually became the most-streamed collaboration of 2023 on the platform.

Title: Die with a Smile
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Die_with_a_Smile
Summary: "Die with a Smile" is a song by American singer-songwriters Lady Gaga and Bruno Mars. It was released as a standalone single on August 16, 2024, through Interscope Records, and was included as the closing track of Gaga's studio album Mayhem (2025). Mars developed the track with Dernst "D'Mile" Emile II and James Fauntleroy in 2021; three years later, he presented it to Gaga, and the four completed it the same day. The final version was written by Gaga, Mars, D-Mile, Andrew Watt, and Fauntleroy, and it was produced by the first four.
The song is a sentimental ballad that incorporates pop, pop-soul, and soft rock, with influences from country music. Critics compared its style to the sounds of 1970s ballads, Gaga's album Joanne (2016) and single "Shallow" (2018), and Mars's Silk Sonic project. Lyrically, it expresses a powerful longing to be with a loved one, highlighting love's urgency amid uncertainty. The song received critical acclaim for the vocals, the instrumentation, and the lyrics' emotional weight.
"Die with a Smile" enjoyed widespread commercial success. On Spotify, it became the longest-reigning daily number-one song, the fastest track to surpass three billion streams, and the most-streamed song of 2025. The track spent 18 weeks atop the Billboard Global 200 and topped the charts in more than 30 countries, including the United States, Canada, New Zealand, and the Netherlands. It was certified multi-diamond in Brazil by Pro-Música Brasil and diamond in France by the National Syndicate of Phonographic Publishing, in Poland by the Polish Society of the Phonographic Industry and in Greece by IFPI Greece.
Mars and Daniel Ramos directed the music video, which was released simultaneously with the song. The video features Gaga playing piano and Mars playing guitar as they sing together in a studio inspired by 1970s television. The duo gave their first live performance of the song at a Mars concert in Los Angeles in August 2024. In the same year, a performance in Las Vegas was released officially on digital platforms. Both artists delivered solo renditions in concerts, including some shows of Bruno Mars Live (2022–2024), Gaga's 2025–2026 Mayhem Ball concert tour, the Super Bowl LX halftime show, and her reimagined version for Mayhem Requiem. "Die with a Smile" was nominated for Song of the Year and won Best Pop Duo/Group Performance at the 67th Annual Grammy Awards.

Title: APT. (song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/APT._(song)
Summary: "APT." is a song by New Zealand and South Korean singer Rosé and American singer-songwriter Bruno Mars. It was released through The Black Label and Atlantic Records on 18 October 2024, as the lead single from Rosé's debut studio album, Rosie (2024). "APT." marked Rosé's first solo single in three years and her first release since departing from YG Entertainment and Interscope Records in 2023. The song was written and composed by various contributors, including Rosé and Mars, and includes elements from the 1982 tune "Mickey" by Toni Basil. It is an up-tempo pop, pop rock, pop-punk, and new wave track, featuring indie rock and electropop influences. Inspired by a South Korean drinking game, the song's chorus is built around the game's rhythmic chant of apateu (Korean: 아파트; lit. 'apartment'; pronounced [a̠pʰa̠tʰɯ]).
Critics lauded "APT." for its catchy production, broad cross-cultural appeal, and its role in promoting Korean culture worldwide. It was the best-selling global single of 2025 according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), marking the first time an artist outside of North America or Europe topped the IFPI Global Single Chart and the first song with non-English lyrics to do so. The song spent 12 weeks atop the Billboard Global 200, becoming Rosé and Mars's second number-one single each and the number-one song on the 2025 year-end chart. In South Korea, it peaked at number one on the Circle Digital Chart for ten weeks. "APT." was the first song by a K-pop female soloist to top Australia's ARIA Singles Chart and the first Western song to top the Billboard Japan Hot 100 in over a decade. The song saw huge global success, topping the charts in over 50 countries including Austria, Belgium, Canada, Germany, Indonesia, New Zealand, Norway, the Philippines, Sweden, Switzerland, and Taiwan. It peaked within the top three in the United Kingdom and the United States, the first song by a K-pop female act to do either.
An accompanying music video was directed by Mars and Daniel Ramos and premiered on Rosé's YouTube channel simultaneously with the single's release. The video featured Rosé and Mars as a garage band wearing matching black leather jackets on a pink-coloured set. The song broke a number of viewership records on YouTube, including becoming the fastest music video by an Asian act to reach one billion views on the platform. "APT." was also the second-fastest song and the fastest by a K-pop artist to reach one billion streams in Spotify history, and the top song of 2025 on Apple Music. Rosé promoted the song through televised performances, including appearances with Mars at the 2024 MAMA Awards and the 68th Annual Grammy Awards. "APT." received numerous accolades, including Song of the Year at the Asia Artist Awards, MAMA Awards, and MTV Video Music Awards, and International Song of the Year at the Brit Awards, making Rosé the first K-pop artist in history to win at the latter. It earned three Grammy Award nominations for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance, Record of the Year, and Song of the Year, becoming the most-nominated song by a K-pop artist and the first to be nominated in a Big Four category as a lead artist.