Title: Dan Gable
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dan_Gable
Summary: Danny Mack Gable (born October 25, 1948) is an American former folkstyle and freestyle wrestler and coach. Considered to be one of the greatest wrestlers of all time, Gable is a two-time NCAA Division I national champion, a World Wrestling Championships gold medalist, and an Olympic gold medalist. Gable was only the third wrestler to be inducted into the United World Wrestling's Hall of Fame in the Legend category. In 2014, Gable was inducted into the International Sports Hall of Fame and awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2020.

Title: Gable Steveson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gable_Steveson
Summary: Gable Dan Steveson (born May 31, 2000) is an American freestyle wrestler, professional mixed martial artist, former professional wrestler and football defensive tackle. He is currently signed to the Heavyweight divisions of both Real American Freestyle and Ultimate Fighting Championship.
In freestyle wrestling, Steveson was a 2020 Summer Olympic gold medalist, and was also a three-time age-group world champion. In folkstyle wrestling, Steveson was a two-time Dan Hodge Trophy winner, a two-time NCAA Division I national champion, a four-time Big Ten Conference champion, and five-time All-American out of the University of Minnesota.
Steveson made his professional mixed martial arts (MMA) debut at LFA 217 on September 12, 2025.
He was previously signed to WWE from 2021 to 2024, but was released after a poorly-received televised match. Steveson was signed to the Buffalo Bills in 2024, but was released before the start of the 2024 NFL season.

Title: Craig Jones (grappler)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Craig_Jones_(grappler)
Summary: Craig Benjamin Jones (born 17 July 1991) is an Australian grappler and Brazilian jiu-jitsu (BJJ) black belt competitor and coach. He is a two-time ADCC Submission Wrestling World Championship silver medalist and a three-time Polaris Pro Grappling champion. Jones trains out of Austin, Texas, and was the head of B Team Jiu-Jitsu, departing in 2025 after the CJI2 event. In 2024 he founded the Craig Jones Invitational.

Title: Damon Kemp
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damon_Kemp
Summary: Robert Steveson Jr. (born March 20, 1999) is an American professional wrestler and former collegiate wrestler. He is currently working on the independent circuit under his real name, stylized as Bobby Steveson. He is best known for his time in the WWE under the ring name Damon Kemp. As a collegiate wrestler, he competed at the University of Minnesota, where he is a former National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) qualifier. Steveson is the older brother of Olympic gold medalist and MMA fighter Gable Steveson.

Title: Wyatt Hendrickson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wyatt_Hendrickson
Summary: Wyatt Hendrickson (born January 13, 2001) is an American wrestler. He currently competes in the Heavyweight division of Real American Freestyle (RAF), where he is the current RAF Heavyweight Champion.
He competed in collegiate wrestling for the Air Force Falcons and Oklahoma State Cowboys. A heavyweight, he won the 2025 NCAA national championship, defeating Gable Steveson in a major upset. He was also the recipient of the 2025 Dan Hodge Trophy. Hendrickson represented the US at the 2025 World Wrestling Championships.