Title: 1945
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1945
Summary: 1945 (MCMXLV) was a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar, the 1945th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 945th  year of the 2nd millennium, the 45th  year of the 20th century, and the  6th   year of the 1940s decade.  
A turning point in human history, 1945 marked the end of World War II, ending with the defeat and occupation of Nazi Germany (including Austria) and the Empire of Japan (especially Korea) by the United States and the Soviet Union in the world of two superpowers. It is also the year the Nazi concentration camps were liberated and the only year in which atomic bombs (nukes) have been used in war. (against the Japanese.)

Title: Malvern, Worcestershire
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malvern,_Worcestershire
Summary: Malvern ( , locally also: ) is a spa town and civil parish in Worcestershire, England. It lies at the foot of the Malvern Hills, a designated National Landscape (formerly known as Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty). The centre of Malvern, Great Malvern, is a historic conservation area, which grew dramatically in Victorian times due to the natural mineral water springs in the vicinity, including Malvern water.
At the 2021 census it had a population of 30,462. It includes Great Malvern on the steep eastern flank of the Malvern Hills, as well as the former independent urban district of Malvern Link. Many of the major suburbs and settlements that comprise the town are separated by large tracts of open common land and fields, and together with smaller civil parishes adjoining the town's boundaries and the hills, the built up area is often referred to collectively as The Malverns.
Archaeological evidence suggests that Bronze Age people had settled in the area around 1000 BC, although it is not known whether these settlements were permanent or temporary. The town itself was founded in the 11th century when Benedictine monks established a priory at the foot of the highest peak of Malvern Hills. During the 19th century Malvern developed rapidly from a village to a sprawling conurbation owing to its popularity as a hydrotherapy spa based on its spring waters. Immediately following the decline of spa tourism towards the end of the 19th century, the town's focus shifted to education with the establishment of several private boarding schools in former hotels and large villas. A further major expansion was the result of the relocation of the Telecommunications Research Establishment (TRE) to Malvern in 1942. QinetiQ, TRE's successor company, remained the town's largest local employer in 2009.
Malvern is the largest place in the parliamentary constituency of West Worcestershire and the district of Malvern Hills, being also the district's administrative seat. The civil parish is governed by Malvern Town Council from its offices in Great Malvern.

Title: Great British Railway Journeys
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_British_Railway_Journeys
Summary: Great British Railway Journeys is a 2010–present BBC documentary series presented by Michael Portillo, a former Conservative MP and Cabinet Minister who was instrumental in saving the Settle to Carlisle line from closure in 1989. The documentary was first broadcast in 2010 on BBC Two and has returned annually for a current total of 16 series.
The series features Portillo travelling around the railway networks of Great Britain, Ireland, and the Isle of Man, referring to Bradshaw's Guide and comparing how the various destinations have changed since; initially, he used an 1840s copy, but in later series, he used other editions. Portillo has said that sometimes he regrets the name of the programme as it is "really about history", and that whilst he likes trains, he "wouldn't say [he was] passionate about them".
Portillo has presented 8 other series with a similar format: Great Continental Railway Journeys (8 series; 2012–2025), Great American Railroad Journeys (4 series; 2016–2020), Great Indian Railway Journeys (2018), Great Alaskan Railroad Journeys and Great Canadian Railway Journeys (broadcast consecutively in January 2019), Great Australian Railway Journeys (2019), Great Asian Railway Journeys (2020), and Great Coastal Railway Journeys (3 series; 2022–2024).

Title: List of Pawn Stars episodes
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Pawn_Stars_episodes
Summary: Pawn Stars is an American reality television series that premiered on History on July 19, 2009. The series is filmed in Las Vegas, Nevada, where it chronicles the activities at the World Famous Gold & Silver Pawn Shop, a 24-hour family business operated by patriarch Richard "Old Man" Harrison, his son Rick Harrison, Rick's son Corey "Big Hoss" Harrison, and Corey's childhood friend, Austin "Chumlee" Russell. The descriptions of the items listed in this article reflect those given by their sellers and staff in the episodes, prior to their appraisal by experts as to their authenticity, unless otherwise noted.

Title: Butlins Skegness
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Butlins_Skegness
Summary: Butlins Skegness (officially Butlins Resort Skegness), formerly Butlin's Skegness or Funcoast World, is a holiday camp located in Ingoldmells near Skegness in Lincolnshire, England. Billy Butlin conceived of its creation based on his experiences at a Canadian summer camp in his youth and by observation of the actions of other holiday accommodation providers, both in seaside resort lodging houses and in earlier smaller holiday camps.
Construction of the camp began in 1935 and it was opened in 1936, when it quickly proved to be a success with a need for expansion.
The camp included dining and recreation facilities, such as dance halls and sports fields. During World War II the camp was taken over and used by the military, serving as a naval training base, but it reverted to a holiday camp in 1946. Since then, the camp has seen continuous use and development, in the mid-1980s and again in the late 1990s being subject to substantial investment and redevelopment.
In the late 1990s, the site was re-branded as a holiday resort, and remains open today as one of three remaining Butlins resorts.