Title: Smartphone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smartphone
Summary: A smartphone is a mobile device that combines the functionality of a traditional mobile phone (feature phone) with advanced computing capabilities. It typically has a touchscreen interface, allowing users to access a wide range of applications and services, such as web browsing, email, and social media, as well as multimedia playback and streaming. Smartphones have built-in cameras, GPS navigation, and support for various communication methods, including voice calls, text messaging, and internet-based messaging apps. Smartphones are distinguished from older-design feature phones by their more advanced hardware capabilities and extensive mobile operating systems, access to the internet, business applications, mobile payments, and multimedia functionality, including music, video, gaming, radio, and television.
Smartphones typically feature metal–oxide–semiconductor (MOS) integrated circuit (IC) chips, various sensors, and support for multiple wireless communication protocols. Examples of smartphone sensors include accelerometers, barometers, gyroscopes, and magnetometers; they can be used by both pre-installed and third-party software to enhance functionality. Wireless communication standards supported by smartphones include LTE, 5G NR, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and satellite navigation. By the mid-2020s, manufacturers began integrating satellite messaging and emergency services, expanding their utility in remote areas without reliable cellular coverage. Smartphones have largely replaced personal digital assistant (PDA) devices, handheld/palm-sized PCs, portable media players (PMP), point-and-shoot cameras, camcorders, and, to a lesser extent, handheld video game consoles, e-reader devices, pocket calculators, and GPS tracking units.
Following the rising popularity of the iPhone in the late 2000s, the majority of smartphones have featured thin, slate-like form factors with large, capacitive touch screens with support for multi-touch gestures rather than physical keyboards. Most modern smartphones have the ability for users to download or purchase additional applications from a centralized app store. They often have support for cloud storage and cloud synchronization, and virtual assistants. Since the early 2010s, improved hardware and faster wireless communication have bolstered the growth of the smartphone industry. As of 2014, over a billion smartphones are sold globally every year. In 2019 alone, 1.54 billion smartphone units were shipped worldwide. As of 2020, 75.05 percent of the world population were smartphone users. Although smartphone use has been associated to some extent with convenience and life satisfaction, a variety of negative effects on physical, mental, and cognitive health have also been identified.

Title: Usage share of operating systems
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_operating_systems
Summary: The usage share of an operating system is the percentage of computers running that operating system (OS). These statistics are estimates as usage data is difficult to obtain and measure. Reliable primary sources are limited and data collection methodology is not formally agreed upon.
Devices connecting to the World Wide Web log which operating system they are using, and so are an approximate measure of OS usage among consumer devices. As of December 2025, among all devices Android, which uses the Linux kernel, is the world's most common operating system to connect to the web with 34.9% of the global market, followed by Windows with 29.98%, iOS with 16.81%, macOS with 2.03%, and other operating systems with 9.06% total.
Between different classes of devices:

For smartphones and other mobile devices, Android has 72% share of traffic, and Apple's iOS has 28%.
For desktop computers and laptops, Microsoft Windows has 62.16%, followed by unknown operating systems at 18.75%, Mac OS at 14.58%, desktop Linux at 3.09%, then Google's ChromeOS at 1.42%, as of June 2026.
For tablets, Apple's iPadOS (a variant of iOS) has 51.23% share and Android has 48.61% worldwide.
Of the top 500 most powerful supercomputers, all since November 2017 have used Linux. 
The global server operating system market share has Linux leading with a 63.1% market share, followed by Windows, Unix and other operating systems.
The most numerous type of device with an operating system are embedded systems. Not all embedded systems have operating systems, instead running their application code on the "bare metal"; of those that do have operating systems, a high percentage are standalone or do not have a web browser, which makes their usage share difficult to measure. Some operating systems used in embedded systems are more widely used than some of those mentioned above. For example, modern Intel microprocessors contain an embedded management processor running a version of the Minix operating system.

Title: MediaTek
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MediaTek
Summary: MediaTek Inc. (Chinese: 聯發科技股份有限公司; pinyin: Liánfā Kējì Gǔfèn Yǒuxiàn Gōngsī), sometimes informally abbreviated as MTK, is a Taiwanese fabless semiconductor company that designs and markets a range of semiconductor products, providing chips for wireless communications, high-definition television, handheld mobile devices like smartphones and tablet computers, navigation systems, consumer multimedia products and digital subscriber line services as well as optical disc drives.
Founded in 1997 and headquartered in Hsinchu, the company has 41 offices worldwide and was the third largest fabless chip designer worldwide in 2016. The company also provides its customers with reference designs. MediaTek became the biggest smartphone chipset vendor with 31% market share in Q3 2020. This was assisted by its strong performance in regions such as China and India.

Title: List of best-selling mobile phones
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_mobile_phones
Summary: This is a list of best-selling mobile phones. The best-selling mobile devices are the bar phones Nokia 1100 and 1110, released in 2003 and 2005, respectively. Both models have sold over 250 million units. The best-selling touchscreen phones are the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, both released in 2014. Together, they have sold over 222 million units. The best-selling flip phone is the Motorola Razr V3, released in 2004. It sold over 130 million units. The best-selling slider phone is the Samsung E250, released in 2006. It has sold over 30 million units.
Of the 115 phones on the list, Samsung sold the most models, with 37. Nokia has 27 models, including four of the top 10. Apple has 16 entries on the list, including the six best selling touchscreen phones, which comprise the remainder of the top 10.
Combined, all mobile phones have shipped 26,309,115,000 units worldwide between 1992 and 2020, and 28,900,614,000 units between 1992 and 2022.

Title: Realme
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Realme
Summary: realme is a multinational Chinese consumer electronics manufacturer backed by Oppo based in Shenzhen, Guangdong. In 2021, realme had risen to become the sixth‑largest smartphone vendor worldwide in terms of shipments in the overall global smartphone market. In 2026 it was being reintegrated into Oppo as a sub-brand.