Title: 2024 Formula One World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Formula_One_World_Championship
Summary: The 2024 FIA Formula One World Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and was the 75th running of the Formula One World Championship. It was recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the governing body of international motorsport, as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. The championship was contested over a record twenty-four Grands Prix held around the world.
Drivers and teams competed for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion, respectively. Defending Drivers' Champion Max Verstappen of Red Bull Racing dominated the opening 10 races with seven wins, however the season as a whole was highly competitive with a record-making six other drivers claiming multiple Grand Prix victories. McLaren driver Lando Norris emerged as Verstappen's closest competitor as the MCL38 began to consistently outperform the RB20. Verstappen maintained his points advantage to win his fourth consecutive Drivers' Championship title at the Las Vegas Grand Prix. Verstappen's title made him only third drivers' champion after Keke Rosberg in 1982 and Nelson Piquet in 1983 to win the drivers' championship with a team that finished 3rd or lower in the constructors' championship, and the second driver after Piquet to win the drivers' championship in a team that did not become constructors' champions on two or more occasions. McLaren surpassed Red Bull and went on to achieve their ninth Constructors' Championship title at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, narrowly ahead of Ferrari by just 14 points. With their first Constructors' Championship victory in 26 years, McLaren became the first constructor other than Red Bull and Mercedes to win the title since Brawn in 2009.

Title: 2025 Formula One World Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_Formula_One_World_Championship
Summary: The 2025 FIA Formula One World Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and the 76th running of the Formula One World Championship. It was recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the governing body of international motorsport, as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. The championship was contested over 24 Grands Prix held around the world. It began in March and ended in December.
Drivers and teams competed for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion, respectively. The season saw Lando Norris win his first drivers' title in his seventh season in the sport, ending the four-year reign of Max Verstappen as champion. The season was largely dominated by McLaren drivers Norris and Oscar Piastri, and reigning Drivers' Champion Verstappen, driving for Red Bull Racing-Honda RBPT. All three were in the running for the World Drivers' Championship going into the season ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, with Norris in the championship lead and Verstappen having closed a gap of 104 points down to 12. Norris's third-place finish in the season finale was enough to win the title. Defending champion Verstappen won the race, allowing him to finish within two points of Norris in the championship. Piastri, who had led the championship for 15 rounds, finished the season in third, 13 points behind Norris. Norris became the 35th driver overall to claim the World Drivers' Championship, and the eighth to do so driving for McLaren. At the Singapore Grand Prix, defending Constructors' Champions McLaren successfully retained their Constructors' title moving them second on the all-time list with ten titles ahead of Williams. It was the first time they had secured both the Drivers' and Constructors' titles since 1998.

Title: 2024 Formula 2 Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Formula_2_Championship
Summary: The 2024 FIA Formula 2 Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula 2 cars sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The championship was the fifty-eighth season of Formula 2 racing and the eighth season run under the FIA Formula 2 Championship moniker. Formula 2 is an open-wheel racing category serving as the second tier of formula racing in the FIA Global Pathway. The category was run in support of selected rounds of the 2024 Formula One World Championship. The 2024 season saw the debut of a new chassis and engine package; as the championship was a spec series, all teams and drivers who competed in the championship ran the same car, the Dallara F2 2024.
ART Grand Prix entered the championship as the reigning Teams' Champions, having secured their title at the final race of the 2023 season in Abu Dhabi. Gabriel Bortoleto and Invicta Racing became the 2024 Drivers' and Teams' Champions in the final round of the season in Abu Dhabi, respectively. By winning the title, Bortoleto became the fourth rookie driver to be crowned Formula 2 Driver's Champion. Furthermore, he is the fourth driver after Charles Leclerc, George Russell and Oscar Piastri to win both the Formula 2 and FIA Formula 3 Championship titles in consecutive seasons.
A record 18 different drivers won races throughout all 28 races. Runner up Isack Hadjar won four races, whilst Oliver Bearman won three races. Champion Gabriel Bortoleto won two races, as did Zane Maloney, Zak O'Sullivan, Andrea Kimi Antonelli, and Joshua Dürksen. Paul Aron took one win during the season, as well as Dennis Hauger, Enzo Fittipaldi, Roman Staněk, Franco Colapinto, Taylor Barnard, Victor Martins, Jak Crawford, Kush Maini, Richard Verschoor, and Pepe Martí.

Title: 2026 Formula 2 Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Formula_2_Championship
Summary: The 2026 FIA Formula 2 Championship is a motor racing championship for Formula 2 cars sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The championship is the sixtieth season of Formula 2 racing and the tenth season run under the FIA Formula 2 Championship moniker. Formula 2 is an open-wheel racing category serving as the second tier of formula racing in the FIA Global Pathway. The category is run in support of selected rounds of the 2026 Formula One World Championship. As the championship is a spec series, all teams and drivers competing in the championship run the same car, the Dallara F2 2024.
Invicta Racing entered the championship as the reigning Teams' Champions, having secured their title at the final race of the previous season in Abu Dhabi.

Title: 2026 FIA Formula 3 Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_FIA_Formula_3_Championship
Summary: The 2026 FIA Formula 3 Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula 3 cars sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The championship was the seventeenth season of Formula 3 racing since the inception of the GP3 Series and the eighth season run under the FIA Formula 3 Championship moniker. FIA Formula 3 is an open-wheel racing category serving as the third tier of formula racing in the FIA Global Pathway. The category was run in support of selected rounds of the 2026 FIA Formula One World Championship. As the championship is a spec series, all teams and drivers who competed in the championship ran the same car, the Dallara F3 2025.
Ugo Ugochukwu won the Drivers' Championship with Campos Racing in his second season of the FIA Formula 3 Championship after finishing second in the final race of the season in Madrid.
Campos Racing entered the season as the reigning Teams' Champions, having secured their inaugural title at the final race of the 2025 season at Monza Circuit. They also secured the Teams' Championship title in 2026.