Title: History of the electric vehicle
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_electric_vehicle
Summary: Electric vehicles became possible in 1827 when Hungarian priest Ányos Jedlik built the first electric motor; the next year he used it to power a small model car powered by a non-rechargeable battery.
In 1838, Robert Davidson built an electric locomotive that attained a speed of four miles per hour (6 km/h). A British patent was granted in 1840 for the use of rails as conductors of electric current, and similar US patents were issued to Lilley and Colten in 1847.
Usable electric cars appeared during the 1890s. An electric car held the vehicular land speed record until around 1900. In the early 20th century, the high cost, low top speed, and short range of battery electric vehicles left them unable to compete with internal combustion engine (ICE)  vehicles for consumer use. Electric vehicles were used for forklift trucks, freight equipment platform trucks, and ambulances.

The first mass-produced electric cars appeared in America in the early 1900s. In 1902, the Studebaker Automobile Company entered the automotive business with electric cars. In 1900, 28 percent of the cars on the road in the US were electric. EVs were so popular that even President Woodrow Wilson and his secret service agents toured Washington, D.C., in their Milburn Light Electrics. Electric trucks were an established niche into the 1920s.
In the 20th century, electric rail became common.  Tow tractors and urban delivery vehicles, such as the iconic British milk float emerged. For most of the 20th century, the UK was the world's largest user of electric road vehicles.
Electric trains transported coal from underground mines, since the motors did not use valuable oxygen. Switzerland's lack of fossil fuel resources forced the electrification of its rail network.
At the beginning of the 21st century, interest in electric and alternative fuel vehicles increased due to concern over their emissions and advancing battery technology.
Cumulative sales of light-duty plug-in electric cars reached 10 million units by the end of 2020.

Title: Battery electric vehicle
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battery_electric_vehicle
Summary: A battery electric vehicle (BEV), pure electric vehicle, only-electric vehicle, fully electric vehicle or all-electric vehicle is a type of electric vehicle (EV) that uses electrical energy exclusively from an on-board battery pack to power one or more electric traction motors, on which the vehicle solely relies for propulsion.
This definition excludes hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs; including mild, full and plug-in hybrids), which use internal combustion engines (ICEs) in adjunct to electric motors for propulsion, as well as fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEVs) and range-extended electric vehicles (REEVs), which consume fuel through a fuel cell or an ICE-driven generator to produce electricity needed for the electric motors. BEVs have no fuel tanks and replenish their energy storage by plugging into a charging station, electrical grid or getting a new battery at a battery swap station, and use motor controllers to modulate the output engine power and torque, thus eliminating the need for clutches, transmissions and sophisticated engine cooling as seen in conventional ICE vehicles. BEVs include – but are not limited to  – all battery-driven electric cars, buses, trucks, forklifts, motorcycles and scooters, bicycles, skateboards, railcars, boat and personal watercraft, although in common usage the term usually refers specifically to passenger cars.
In 2016, there were 210 million electric bikes worldwide used daily. Cumulative global sales of highway-capable light-duty pure electric car vehicles passed the one million unit milestone in September 2016. As of September 2024, the world's top-selling all-electric car in history is the Tesla Model Y, with an estimated 3.4 million sales, followed by the Tesla Model 3 with over 2.6 million sales, and the Wuling Hongguang Mini EV with 1.4 million sales as of May 2024.

Title: Electric vehicle industry in China
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_vehicle_industry_in_China
Summary: The electric vehicle industry in China is the largest in the world, accounting for more than 70% of global production of electric vehicles (EVs) and 67% of global sales in 2024 and more than 2.62 million exports in 2025. In 2025, CAAM reported China had sold 16.49 million passenger electric vehicles,  In 2024, 60% of EV sales were battery electric vehicles (BEVs) and 40% were plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs). China also dominates the electric bus and light commercial vehicle market, reaching over 500,000 buses (95% of global stock) and recording new sales of 447,000 commercial EVs in 2023. In 2025, 51% of sales of vehicles in the automobile market in China were electric vehicles.
Plug-in electric vehicle (BEV and PHEV) sales were 47.9% of the overall automotive sales in China in 2024. This is a significant increase from 2020, when plug-in electric vehicles accounted for only 6.3% of total sales. The plug-in market in China was dominated by Chinese companies, with BYD Auto and SAIC Motor occupying the top two spots, and 5 out of the top 7 spots.
The electric battery industry is closely related to the EV industry as EV batteries constitute around 1/3 of the cost of EVs and around 80% of lithium-ion batteries in the world are used in EVs. The industry also has significant Chinese presence, with major players including world's largest CATL, BYD FinDreams, CALB, Gotion, SVOLT and EVE Energy.

Title: Extended-range electric vehicle
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended-range_electric_vehicle
Summary: An extended-range electric vehicle (EREV), also called a range-extended electric vehicle (REEV), is an electric vehicle fitted with a fuel-powered internal combustion engine, acting as a range extender that drives a generator to recharge the traction battery when it is depleted. Unlike a conventional plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV), in which the combustion engine may drive the wheels directly, the engine in an extended-range electric vehicle has no mechanical connection to the drivetrain; the wheels are driven exclusively by the electric motor. Extended-range electric vehicles can usually be charged from the electrical grid as well as from the onboard generator, and are therefore classified as a subcategory of plug-in hybrid electric vehicles by most regulators, though some markets, notably China, treat them as a distinct segment.
In the U.S., the California Air Resources Board (CARB) uses the designation BEVx for vehicles that comply with its specific criteria for extended-range battery-electric vehicles.
Outside China, the EREV architecture has found limited commercial traction; early examples including the Chevrolet Volt and BMW i3 REx were both discontinued by the early 2020s. In China, the segment achieved mass-market scale from around 2019, led by Li Auto, AITO (Seres Auto), and Leapmotor, with EREV sales reaching 1.18 million units in 2024 alone. From 2024, renewed interest emerged in Western markets as consumer resistance to battery electric vehicles led manufacturers to reconsider range-extension as a bridge technology, with Stellantis, Scout Motors, Hyundai, and Ford all announcing EREV models for introduction between 2026 and 2029.