Title: Mohammed Dewji
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohammed_Dewji
Summary: Mohammed "Mo" Gulamabbas Dewji (born 8 May 1975) is a Tanzanian billionaire businessman and former politician. He is the owner of MeTL Group, a Tanzanian conglomerate founded by his grandmother, developed by his father in the 1970s. Dewji served as Member of the Tanzanian Parliament for Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) from 2005 to 2015 for his home town of Singida. As of October 2024, Dewji has an estimated net worth of US$1.8 billion, Africa's 17th richest person and youngest billionaire. Dewji was the first Tanzanian on the cover of Forbes magazine, in 2013.

Title: Pavel Durov
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pavel_Durov
Summary: Pavel Valeryevich Durov (Russian: Павел Валерьевич Дуров; born 10 October 1984) is a technology entrepreneur who is best known as the chief executive officer (CEO) of Telegram.
Durov was born in the Soviet Union, and he co-founded the social networking site VKontakte (VK) in 2006. He was forced out of VK in 2014 following disputes with the company's new owners and increased pressure from Russian authorities, which also led him to leave the country. In 2013, he and his older brother, Nikolai Durov, developed Telegram, and in 2017, they moved to Dubai, United Arab Emirates, where its headquarters are now located.
Durov was listed on Forbes's billionaires list in 2023, with an estimated net worth of $13 billion. His fortune is largely driven by his ownership of Telegram. As of 13 March 2026, Durov was ranked the 588th richest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of $6.6 billion, according to Forbes. In 2022, he was recognized by Forbes as the richest expat in the United Arab Emirates. In February 2023 Arabian Business named him the most powerful entrepreneur in Dubai. Since 2021, he has held citizenship in  Russia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, the United Arab Emirates, and France.
Durov publicly stands for Internet freedom and criticizes the establishment that tries to restrict it. On 24 August 2024, Durov was arrested by French police on criminal charges relating to an alleged lack of content moderation on Telegram and refusal to work with police, which allegedly allowed the spread of criminal activities. In July 2026, Russia issued an arrest warrant against Durov for “collaborating with terrorist activities”.

Title: The World's Billionaires
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_World%27s_Billionaires
Summary: The World's Billionaires is an annual ranking by the American business magazine Forbes of people who are billionaires, i.e., they are estimated to have a net worth of US$1 billion or more. The list was first published in March 1987. The net worth of each individual is cited in United States dollars, based on their documented assets, and accounting for debt and other factors. This ranking excludes royalty and dictators whose wealth comes from their positions, as well as people whose wealth is not able to be completely ascertained.
In 2018, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was first ranked at the top and became the first centibillionaire included in the ranking, surpassing Microsoft founder Bill Gates, who had topped the list 18 of the previous 24 years. In 2022, Bezos was surpassed by Elon Musk. In 2023, Musk was surpassed by French businessman Bernard Arnault, the first French person to top the list. In 2025 and 2026, Musk once again topped the list.

Title: Michael Rubin (businessman)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Rubin_(businessman)
Summary: Michael Gary Rubin ( ROO-bin; born July 21, 1972) is an American businessman and socialite. He is the founder and CEO of Fanatics, a global digital sports platform that consists of several businesses, including licensed sports merchandise, trading cards and collectibles, sports betting and iGaming, special events, and live commerce. He is a board member of Rue Gilt Groupe, which includes RueLaLa.com, Gilt.com, and ShopPremiumOutlets.com. He founded GSI Commerce in 1998, selling it to eBay in 2011 for US$2.4 billion.
In 2011, Rubin became a partner of the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team and the New Jersey Devils hockey team. In June 2022, Rubin sold his stakes in Harris Blitzer Sports & Entertainment, the holding company of both, to focus on the expansion of Fanatics. He is the co-chair of the REFORM Alliance, a criminal justice reform organization that he launched in January 2019, together with Jay-Z, Meek Mill, Robert Kraft, and Daniel S. Loeb, among others.
His annual "White Party", typically held at or around July 4, regularly draws celebrities from sports, media, entertainment, fashion, and other industries.

Title: Balkrishna
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balkrishna
Summary: Balkrishna (born 4 August 1972) is a Sanskrit scholar, Ayurveda researcher, author, co-founder & managing director of the Patanjali Ayurved, Patanjali Foods and Patanjali Yogpeeth. He was reported by Forbes to have a net worth of US$2.3 billion as of May 2021. It was then updated to US$3.6 billion in 2025.