Title: Kendrick Lamar
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kendrick_Lamar
Summary: Kendrick Lamar Duckworth (born June 17, 1987) is an American rapper and songwriter. Rooted in West Coast hip-hop, his music features conscious, introspective lyrics, with political criticism and social commentary concerning African-American culture. Music journalists have listed Lamar among the greatest rappers of all time. In 2018, he became the first musician outside of the classical and jazz genres to receive the Pulitzer Prize for Music.
Born and raised in Compton, California, Lamar began releasing music under the stage name K.Dot in high school. He signed with Top Dawg Entertainment (TDE) in 2005 and co-founded the hip hop supergroup Black Hippy. His alternative rap debut album, Section.80, led to a joint contract with Dr. Dre's Aftermath Entertainment and Interscope Records. He rose to stardom with his gangsta rap–influenced second album Good Kid, M.A.A.D City (2012), which became the longest-charting hip hop studio album on the Billboard 200 and was named the greatest concept album of all time by Rolling Stone. In 2015, he had his first Billboard Hot 100 number-one single, with the remix of Taylor Swift's "Bad Blood", and released his first of five consecutive number-one albums on the Billboard 200, To Pimp a Butterfly, which infused hip-hop with historical African-American music genres such as jazz, funk, and soul.
Lamar's critical and commercial success continued with his R&B and pop-leaning fourth album Damn (2017), featuring his second US number-one single, "Humble". He contributed to the soundtrack of the 2018 film Black Panther, earning a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Original Song for "All the Stars". His fifth album, Mr. Morale & the Big Steppers (2022), delved into introspection and concluded his tenure with TDE and Aftermath. In 2024, his highly publicized feud with Drake and sixth album GNX spawned the Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles "Like That", "Not Like Us", "Squabble Up", and "Luther". "Not Like Us" won five Grammy Awards, including Song of the Year and Record of the Year, while "Luther" also won the latter and became his longest-charting number-one song in the US, at 13 weeks.
Lamar's accolades include 27 Grammy Awards—the most for a rapper—2 Primetime Emmy Awards, a Brit Award, 5 American Music Awards, 7 Billboard Music Awards, 11 MTV Video Music Awards and a record 37 BET Hip Hop Awards. Time listed him as one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2016. Three of his works were included in Rolling Stone's 2020 revision of the "500 Greatest Albums of All Time". In 2025, he headlined the most-watched Super Bowl halftime show in history, while his Grand National Tour with SZA became the highest-grossing co-headlining tour of all time. Outside of music, Lamar co-founded the creative company PGLang and ventured into film with his longtime creative partner, Dave Free.

Title: Bad Blood (Taylor Swift song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bad_Blood_(Taylor_Swift_song)
Summary: "Bad Blood" is a song by the American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift from her fifth studio album, 1989 (2014). She wrote the song with the Swedish producers Max Martin and Shellback. It is a pop song using keyboards and hip-hop-inspired drum beats, and the lyrics are about betrayal by a close friend. A remix featuring the American rapper Kendrick Lamar, with additional lyrics by Lamar and production by the Swedish musician Ilya, was released to radio as 1989's fourth single on May 17, 2015, by Big Machine and Republic Records.
Music critics gave the album version of "Bad Blood" mixed reviews; some described it as catchy and engaging, but others criticized the production as bland and the lyrics repetitive. The remix version received somewhat more positive comments for Lamar's verses, featured among the best songs of 2015 on lists by NME and PopMatters, and received a Grammy nomination for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance. Critics have retrospectively considered "Bad Blood" one of Swift's worst songs. The single reached number one and received multi-platinum certifications in Australia, Canada, and the United States.
Directed by Joseph Kahn and produced by Swift, the music video for "Bad Blood" features an ensemble cast consisting of female singers, actresses, and models. Having a production that resembles sci-fi and action movies, it won the Grammy Award for Best Music Video and MTV Video Music Awards for the Video of the Year and Best Collaboration. Swift performed "Bad Blood" on the 1989 World Tour (2015), the Reputation Stadium Tour (2018), and the Eras Tour (2023–2024). Following a 2019 dispute regarding the ownership of Swift's back catalog, she re-recorded both the album version and the Lamar remix for her 2023 re-recorded album 1989 (Taylor's Version); both re-recordings are subtitled "Taylor's Version".

Title: Euphoria (Kendrick Lamar song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euphoria_(Kendrick_Lamar_song)
Summary: "Euphoria" (stylized in all lowercase) is a diss track by the American rapper Kendrick Lamar released amidst his highly publicized feud with the Canadian rapper Drake. It was unexpectedly released on April 30, 2024, through Interscope Records, as a response to Drake's "Push Ups" and "Taylor Made Freestyle". It was initially a YouTube exclusive before being released to streaming platforms hours later.
"Euphoria" was produced by Cardo, Johnny Juliano, Kyuro, Sounwave, and Yung Exclusive. It credits Kenneth Gamble as a composer due to the introduction containing a sample of Teddy Pendergrass's 1981 song "You're My Latest, My Greatest Inspiration". The title is an apparent reference to the American teen drama series Euphoria, on which Drake serves as an executive producer. Lyrically, Lamar expresses his hatred for Drake, describing him as a scam artist and mocking his alleged insecurities regarding his race.
"Euphoria" was Lamar's first release following his departure from Top Dawg Entertainment and Aftermath Entertainment. It received positive reviews from critics, who praised its humorous yet hateful tone and Lamar's performance. It also performed commercially well, peaking at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 and Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs charts, and appearing in charts from various countries. Lamar followed "Euphoria" with "6:16 in LA" on May 3, the same day Drake released his response, "Family Matters", in which the former responded with "Meet the Grahams" within less than an hour. Lamar later performed "Euphoria" at The Pop Out: Ken & Friends (2024), the Super Bowl LIX halftime show (2025), and the Grand National Tour (2025).

Title: Not Like Us
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_Like_Us
Summary: "Not Like Us" is a diss track by the American rapper Kendrick Lamar released amidst his highly publicized feud with the Canadian rapper Drake. It was released on May 4, 2024, through Interscope Records, less than 20 hours after Lamar's previous diss track "Meet the Grahams". A music video, directed by Dave Free and Lamar, was released on American Independence Day (July 4).
Primarily produced by Mustard, with additional work from Sounwave and Sean Momberger, "Not Like Us" is a hyphy-influenced West Coast hip-hop song with a prominent bassline, lively strings, and finger snaps. Lyrically, it continues the themes introduced in "Meet the Grahams". Lamar doubles down on allegations of Drake's sexual interest in minors and sexual misconduct. He also criticizes his cultural identity and relationships with artists based in Atlanta, Georgia, accusing him of exploiting them for street credibility and financial gain.
"Not Like Us" received acclaim from critics, who praised the production, songwriting, and Lamar's performance; they felt it solidified Lamar's victory. It is widely regarded as the feud's best track. "Not Like Us" broke numerous records on the streaming platform Spotify and peaked at number one in ten countries, while charting in the top ten in over 20 additional countries. Drake responded to "Not Like Us" with "The Heart Part 6", in which he denied Lamar's accusations, on May 5. In January 2025, Drake filed a lawsuit against Interscope's parent Universal Music Group (UMG), alleging that "Not Like Us" defamed him and that UMG and Spotify artificially inflated its popularity; the lawsuit was dismissed in October 2025.
"Not Like Us" won all five of its Grammy nominations at the 67th ceremony: Record of the Year, Song of the Year, Best Rap Performance, Best Rap Song, and Best Music Video. It is tied with the 5th Dimension's "Up, Up and Away" as the most-awarded song in Grammy history. Lamar first performed "Not Like Us" live on Juneteenth 2024 during The Pop Out: Ken & Friends, where he played it five consecutive times. He performed it when he headlined the Super Bowl LIX halftime show in February 2025 and throughout his Grand National Tour from April to October 2025.

Title: Iceman (album)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iceman_(album)
Summary: Iceman (stylized in all caps) is the ninth studio album by Canadian rapper Drake, released through OVO Sound and Republic Records on May 15, 2026 alongside his surprise tenth and eleventh studio albums Maid of Honour and Habibti. The albums are a follow-up to Drake's collaborative album Some Sexy Songs 4 U (2025) and mark his first solo albums since For All the Dogs (2023). 
Production for Iceman was handled by Drake's frequent collaborators, including 40, Boi-1da, and Tay Keith, among others, and features guest appearances from Future, Molly Santana, and 21 Savage. Iceman was supported by the singles "What Did I Miss?", "Janice STFU", and "2 Hard 4 the Radio". "Janice STFU" debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 (his fourteenth overall), breaking Michael Jackson's record for most US number ones by a male artist since the chart's 1958 inception. Iceman received generally mixed critical reception, with praise for its production and lyrics, but criticism for its length and themes. 
Iceman opened with first-week sales of 463,000 album-equivalent units in the United States and topped the US Billboard 200, with Drake setting the record for most US number-one albums by a male artist and tying Taylor Swift for the most US number-one albums by a solo artist (15). With Habibti and Maid of Honour debuting at number two and three, respectively, Drake became the first artist ever to hold the top three spots on the Billboard 200 concurrently. Iceman also reached number one in his home country of Canada, as well as in Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom, and debuted in top 20 in numerous territories.