Title: Max Verstappen
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Max_Verstappen
Summary: Max Emilian Verstappen (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈmɑks fɛrˈstɑpə(n)]; born 30 September 1997) is a Dutch and Belgian racing driver who competes under the Dutch flag in Formula One for Red Bull Racing. Verstappen has won four Formula One World Drivers' Championship titles, which he won consecutively from 2021 to 2024 with Red Bull, and has won 71 Grands Prix across 12 seasons.
Born in Hasselt and raised in Maaseik, Verstappen is the son of Dutch former Formula One driver Jos Verstappen and Belgian former kart racer Sophie Kumpen. After a successful karting career—culminating in his record-breaking 2013 season—Verstappen graduated to junior formulae. Progressing directly to FIA European Formula 3, Verstappen broke several records on his way to third in the championship in his rookie season with Van Amersfoort. Aged 17, Verstappen signed for Toro Rosso in 2015 as part of the Red Bull Junior Team, becoming the youngest driver in Formula One history at the Australian Grand Prix. Following several points finishes in his debut season, Verstappen retained his seat for 2016 before being promoted to parent team Red Bull to partner Daniel Ricciardo after four rounds. On debut for Red Bull, aged 18, Verstappen won the Spanish Grand Prix, becoming the youngest-ever driver to win a Formula One Grand Prix. Verstappen achieved multiple race wins in his 2017 and 2018 campaigns, before finishing third in both the 2019 and 2020 World Drivers' Championships under Honda power.
Verstappen won his maiden title in 2021 after overtaking Lewis Hamilton on the final lap of the last race of the season, becoming the first World Drivers' Champion from the Netherlands. Verstappen won the next two championships in 2022 and 2023, overturning the largest points deficit in Formula One history in the former and breaking numerous records across both seasons. He secured his fourth consecutive title in 2024 after winning nine Grands Prix, including a widely acclaimed wet-weather performance in São Paulo, to become the first driver to win the championship driving for a third-placed constructor in 41 years. He finished runner-up by two points in a three-way title battle with Lando Norris and Oscar Piastri in 2025.
As of the 2026 Spanish Grand Prix, Verstappen has achieved 71 race wins, 48 pole positions, 37 fastest laps, and 133 podiums in Formula One. In addition to being the youngest Grand Prix winner, he holds several Formula One records, including the most wins in a season (19), the most podium finishes in a season (21), the most consecutive wins (10), and the most consecutive pole positions (8, shared with Ayrton Senna). Verstappen is contracted to remain at Red Bull until at least the end of the 2030 season. Outside of Formula One, Verstappen runs the Verstappen Racing team, has competed in sports car racing events, and has also competed professionally in sim racing since 2015, winning several marquee iRacing events. Verstappen was listed in the 2024 issue of Time as one of the 100 most influential people globally, and was appointed an Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau in 2022.

Title: Charles Leclerc
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Leclerc
Summary: Charles Marc Hervé Perceval Leclerc (French pronunciation: [ʃaʁl(ə) ləklɛʁ]; born 16 October 1997) is a Monégasque racing driver who competes in Formula One for Ferrari. Leclerc was runner-up in the Formula One World Drivers' Championship in 2022 with Ferrari, and has won nine Grands Prix across nine seasons.
Born and raised in Monte Carlo, Leclerc began competitive kart racing aged seven. After a successful karting career—culminating in his victory at the junior World Cup in 2011—Leclerc graduated to junior formulae. Progressing directly to Formula Renault 2.0, he finished runner-up to Nyck de Vries in the Alps Series and achieved several podium finishes in the Eurocup. Leclerc graduated to FIA European Formula 3 in 2015, winning several races as he finished fourth in his rookie season. He won his first championship at the 2016 GP3 Series with ART. Leclerc then won the inaugural FIA Formula 2 Championship in 2017 with Prema, becoming the fourth driver to win the GP2/F2 championship in their rookie season and breaking several records.
Leclerc made his Formula One debut in 2018 with Sauber as part of the Ferrari Driver Academy, scoring several points finishes in the C37. He joined Ferrari for 2019 to partner Sebastian Vettel and became the second-youngest polesitter in Formula One history at the Bahrain Grand Prix; he took his maiden career win in Belgium, before ending Ferrari's record nine-year drought at the Italian Grand Prix, which saw him nicknamed "il Predestinato" in Italian media. After winless seasons for Ferrari in 2020 and 2021, Leclerc took several victories and finished runner-up to Max Verstappen in the 2022 World Drivers' Championship. Following five pole positions and six podiums in his 2023 campaign, Leclerc won the Monaco Grand Prix in 2024, becoming the first Monégasque driver to win the race in 93 years; he achieved further victories in Italy and the United States as he finished third in the championship. Partnered by Lewis Hamilton from 2025 onwards, he returned to victory in Britain following new regulations in 2026.
As of the 2026 Spanish Grand Prix, Leclerc has achieved nine race wins, 13 fastest laps, and 54 podiums in Formula One; he also holds the record for the most pole positions without a World Drivers' Championship (27). Leclerc is contracted to remain at Ferrari until at least the end of the 2028 season. Outside of motor racing, Leclerc collaborated with pianist Sofiane Pamart on an extended play, Dreamers (2024), which peaked at number two on the Billboard Classical Albums chart.

Title: Théo Pourchaire
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Th%C3%A9o_Pourchaire
Summary: Théo Jérôme Julien Pourchaire (French pronunciation: [te.o puʁ.ʃɛʁ]; born 20 August 2003) is a French racing driver who currently competes in the FIA World Endurance Championship for Peugeot, serves as development driver in Formula One for Mercedes and is set to compete in the 2026–27 Formula E season for Opel. He is the 2023 Formula 2 champion, and the 2020 Formula 3 runner-up.
A former member of the Sauber Academy, Pourchaire started racing in single-seaters in 2018, and came third in the French F4 Championship. The following year, he won the 2019 ADAC Formula 4 Championship for US Racing–CHRS, scrapping with Dennis Hauger to the title. Pourchaire signed with ART Grand Prix for the 2020 FIA Formula 3 Championship and ended the season as runner-up behind Oscar Piastri by three points.
ART then promoted Pourchaire to the FIA Formula 2 Championship in 2021, ranking fifth in his rookie year. He was runner-up to Felipe Drugovich in 2022, and claimed the title in 2023. In 2024, he temporarily raced in IndyCar with Arrow McLaren, initially to substitute for the injured David Malukas before being signed permanently, and then dropped in favour of Nolan Siegel. He returned to full-time racing in 2025, joining the European Le Mans Series with Algarve Pro Racing.

Title: Karting European Championship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karting_European_Championship
Summary: The FIA Karting European Championship, officially known as the Mondokart.com FIA Karting European Championship for sponsorship reasons, is a kart racing competition organised by the CIK-FIA. Alongside the Karting World Championship, it is one of two major karting competitions sanctioned by the FIA.
Six past European Champions have progressed to win the Formula One World Drivers' Championship: Michael Schumacher (1987, ICA), Jenson Button (1997, FSA), Lewis Hamilton (2000, FA), Sebastian Vettel (2001, ICA-J), Max Verstappen (2013, KF and KZ), and Lando Norris (2013, KF-J). Other previous champions to win FIA World Championships in auto racing include Yvan Muller (1986, FK), Sébastien Buemi (2002, ICA-J), Kévin Estre (2004, ICA), James Calado (2005, ICA), Michael Christensen (2005, ICA-J), and Nyck de Vries (2009, KF3).
In recent years, European Championship has been contested across a season, where the World Championship is hosted as a single event. As of 2024, the European Championship is held across two direct-drive and three gearbox classes. The primary direct-drive class is OK, and the primary gearbox class is KZ.

Title: The Super Mario Bros. Movie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Super_Mario_Bros._Movie
Summary: The Super Mario Bros. Movie is a 2023 American animated adventure comedy film based on Nintendo's Mario video game franchise. Directed by Aaron Horvath and Michael Jelenic and written by Matthew Fogel, the film stars an ensemble voice cast led by Chris Pratt, Anya Taylor-Joy, Charlie Day, Jack Black, Keegan-Michael Key, Seth Rogen, and Fred Armisen. It was produced by Illumination and Nintendo. The film follows brothers Mario (Pratt) and Luigi (Day), two Italian-American plumbers who get separated after being transported to another world and become entangled in a war between the Mushroom Kingdom, led by Princess Peach (Taylor-Joy), and the Dark Lands, led by the King of the Koopas, Bowser (Black).
As a result of the critical and commercial failure of the live-action film Super Mario Bros. (1993), Nintendo became reluctant to license its intellectual properties for film adaptations. Despite this, Mario creator Shigeru Miyamoto became interested in developing another film during the development of the Virtual Console service. Through Nintendo's work with Universal Parks & Resorts to create Super Nintendo World, he met with Illumination CEO Chris Meledandri. By 2016, they were discussing a Mario film and, in January 2018, Nintendo announced that they would produce it with Illumination and Universal. Production was underway by 2020, and the cast was announced in September 2021.
The Super Mario Bros. Movie premiered at Regal LA Live on April 1, 2023, and was released in the United States on April 5, by Universal Pictures. The film received mixed reviews from critics, and grossed $1.360 billion worldwide, breaking multiple box-office records, including becoming the highest-grossing film based on a video game and the first film based on a video game to reach the billion-dollar mark. It finished its theatrical run as the second-highest-grossing film of 2023, the third-highest-grossing animated film, the 15th-highest-grossing film of all time, and the highest-grossing film produced by Illumination. At the 81st Golden Globe Awards, the film received nominations for Best Animated Feature Film, Best Original Song, and Cinematic Box Office Achievement, a category introduced at the same ceremony. A sequel, The Super Mario Galaxy Movie, was released in 2026.