Title: List of best-selling video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_video_games
Summary: This is a list of the best-selling video games worldwide, ranked up to 50th place by reported software unit sales. Reliable sources are split as to whether the title of best-selling video game should belong to Tetris, a 1988 multi-platform puzzle video game created by Alexey Pajitnov, or to Minecraft, a 2011 multi-platform sandbox game created by Markus Persson and developed by Mojang Studios. Some sources consider Tetris to be the best-selling video game by combining the sales of all of its different versions, totaling 520 million as of 2022, while others consider the best-selling video game to be Minecraft, which has sold 400 million copies as of 2026, rejecting the aggregation of each Tetris release. The closest competitor to either is Grand Theft Auto V, which has sold 230 million copies. The best-selling single-platform game is Wii Sports, with nearly 83 million sales for the Wii console.

Title: List of best-selling game consoles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_game_consoles
Summary: The following table contains video game consoles that have sold at least 1 million units worldwide either through to consumers or inside retail channels. Each console includes sales from every iteration unless otherwise noted. The years correspond to when the first version of each console was released (excluding test markets).

Title: The Last of Us (video game)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Last_of_Us_(video_game)
Summary: The Last of Us is a 2013 action-adventure game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. Players control Joel, a smuggler tasked with escorting a teenage girl, Ellie, across a post-apocalyptic United States. The Last of Us is played from a third-person perspective. Players use firearms, improvised weapons, and stealth to defend against hostile humans and cannibalistic creatures infected by a mutated fungus. In the online multiplayer mode, up to eight players engage in cooperative and competitive gameplay.
The game's development began in 2009 after the release of Naughty Dog's previous game, Uncharted 2: Among Thieves. The studio split into two teams for the first time, with one developing The Last of Us and the other Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception. Troy Baker and Ashley Johnson portrayed Joel and Ellie through voice and motion capture, and assisted creative director Neil Druckmann with developing the characters and story; Joel and Ellie's relationship became the focus of development, with all other elements crafted around it. The score was composed and performed by Gustavo Santaolalla.
The Last of Us was released for the PlayStation 3 in 2013 to critical acclaim for its narrative, gameplay, visuals, sound design, score, characterization, depiction of violence, and portrayal of female characters. It became one of the best-selling video games, selling over 1.3 million copies in its first week and 17 million by April 2018. Its year-end accolades include Game of the Year awards from several gaming publications and awards ceremonies. It is considered one of the most significant seventh-generation console games and among the best video games.
Naughty Dog released several downloadable content additions; The Last of Us: Left Behind adds a single-player campaign following Ellie and her best friend Riley. A remastered version, The Last of Us Remastered, was released for the PlayStation 4 in 2014, and a remake, The Last of Us Part I, was released for the PlayStation 5 in 2022 and on Windows in 2023. A sequel, The Last of Us Part II, was released in 2020. Other The Last of Us media includes a comic book in 2013, a live show in 2014, a television adaptation by HBO in 2023, and a tabletop game by Themeborne in 2024.

Title: List of best-selling Nintendo Switch video games
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_Nintendo_Switch_video_games
Summary: This is a list of the best selling video games for the Nintendo Switch that have sold or shipped at least one million copies. As Nintendo shares the sales of their video games every quarter while most other publishers do not share sales figures per console, this list consists mostly of Nintendo-published titles.
Nintendo Switch, a hybrid home console and handheld device, launched worldwide on March 3, 2017. By the end of 2017, it had outsold the lifetime sales of Wii U, its home console predecessor. In September 2019, Nintendo launched the Nintendo Switch Lite, a handheld-only version of the system. By the end of 2020, total Nintendo Switch family units had outsold the lifetime sales of the Nintendo 3DS, its handheld console predecessor, by selling nearly 80 million units. As of June 30, 2026, 156.59 million Nintendo Switch consoles had been shipped, with over 1.5 billion copies of games having been shipped for the platform. The three best-selling games on the platform have been Mario Kart 8 Deluxe at 71.53 million units sold, Animal Crossing: New Horizons at 50.29 million units, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate at 38.14 million units. The three best-selling franchises on the platform have been Mario at 278.84 million units sold, Pokémon at 119.8 million units, and The Legend of Zelda at 75.47 million units. Other major selling franchises include Splatoon, which sold 25.56 million units, and Kirby, which sold 13.36 million units.

Title: List of best-selling video games in the United States by year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_video_games_in_the_United_States_by_year
Summary: This is a listing of the best-selling video games in the United States annually by units sold since 1980, with sales figures from Circana since 1994. The United States is a very competitive market for video game developers. Games from different developers around the world have entered the annual lists of top ten best-selling games in the United States. The most successful developers are mostly from the United States, Japan, Canada, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
Among the forty-three reported annual top-sellers between 1980 and 2024, thirteen were published by Activision Blizzard and another thirteen by Nintendo, four each by Atari and Take-Two Interactive, three by Electronic Arts, and two each by Sega and Acclaim Entertainment. Video game publishers Activision Blizzard and Electronic Arts managed to enter the list of ten best-selling games every single year with at least one of their games for the last fifteen years in a row. Of the twelve best-selling games released in the last fourteen years, twelve were from Call of Duty franchise and published by Activision Blizzard. Madden NFL and the Call of Duty series have been on the annual top ten best-sellers list twelve times over the last thirteen years. Call of Duty has been the best-selling video game series in the US for the past sixteen years.
The Circana lists do not encompass the industry as a whole, as some publishers, developers, and the majority of indie developers do not share data with NPD. Some video games companies also do not share physical games sales and some digital storefront sales such as Steam and Battle.net. Companies that share data with NPD include: Bandai Namco Entertainment, Capcom, Disney Interactive, Embracer Group, Konami, Krafton, Marvelous, NCSoft, Sega, Sony Interactive Entertainment, Square Enix, Take-Two Interactive, Warner Bros. Games, and Wizard of the Coast.
Ubisoft has stopped sharing data with Circana in 2025. Electronic Arts, Microsoft and Nintendo does not share digital sales data with the NPD. Blizzard Entertainment does not share Battle.net sales, and other publishers may not share their data. As a result, some games are underrepresented.