Title: Liquid-crystal display
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liquid-crystal_display
Summary: A liquid-crystal display (LCD) is a flat-panel display or other electronically modulated optical device that uses the light-modulating properties of liquid crystals combined with polarizers to display information. Liquid crystals do not emit light directly but instead use a backlight or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome.
LCDs are available to display arbitrary images (as in a general-purpose computer display) or fixed images with low information content, which can be displayed or hidden: preset words, digits, and seven-segment displays (as in a digital clock) are all examples of devices with these displays. They use the same basic technology, except that arbitrary images are made from a matrix of small pixels, while other displays have larger elements.
LCDs are used in a wide range of applications, including LCD televisions, computer monitors, instrument panels, aircraft cockpit displays, and indoor and outdoor signage. Small LCD screens are common in LCD projectors and portable consumer devices such as digital cameras, watches, calculators, and mobile telephones, including smartphones. LCD screens have replaced heavy, bulky and less energy-efficient cathode-ray tube (CRT) displays in nearly all applications since the late 2000s to the early 2010s.
LCDs can either be normally on (positive) or off (negative), depending on the polarizer arrangement. For example, a character positive LCD with a backlight has black lettering on a background that is the color of the backlight, and a character negative LCD has a black background with the letters being of the same color as the backlight. 
LCDs are not subject to screen burn-in like on CRTs. However, LCDs are still susceptible to image persistence.

Title: Liquid crystal on silicon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liquid_crystal_on_silicon
Summary: Liquid crystal on silicon (LCoS or LCOS) is a miniaturized reflective active-matrix liquid-crystal display or "microdisplay" using a liquid crystal layer on top of a silicon backplane. It is also known as a spatial light modulator. LCoS initially was developed for projection televisions, but has since found additional uses in wavelength selective switching, structured illumination, near-eye displays and optical pulse shaping.
JVC's development of LCoS is branded as Direct-drive Image Light Amplifier (D-ILA), while Sony's own development is branded as Silicon X-tal Reflective Display (SXRD).
LCoS is distinct from LCD projection technology, which uses transmissive LCD panel(s) that block or allow light through. LCoS is more similar to DLP displays.

Title: Swarovski
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swarovski
Summary: Swarovski (, German: [svaˈrɔfski] ) is an Austrian luxury goods conglomerate that designs, manufactures, distributes and sells jewellery, watches and glass. The company is based in Wattens, Tyrol and was founded in 1895 by Daniel Swarovski.
The company is split into three major industry areas: the Swarovski Crystal Business, which primarily produces crystal glass, jewellery, rhinestone, watches and accessories; Swarovski Optik, which produces optical instruments such as telescopes, telescopic sights for rifles, and binoculars; and Tyrolit, a manufacturer of grinding, sawing, drilling, and dressing tools, as well as a supplier of tools and machines.
Swarovski jewellery is regarded as one of the most prestigious manufacturers of luxury goods. FashionUnited ranked Swarovski on its Most Valuable Fashion Brands list as 22nd in 2025, with a brand value of $4.8 billion.
Today, the Swarovski Crystal Business is one of the highest-grossing business units within Swarovski, with a global reach of approximately 3,000 stores in roughly 170 countries, more than 29,000 employees, and a revenue of about 2.7 billion euros (in 2018).
Swarovski is now run by the fifth generation of family members. It has been announced, however, that for the first time in the company's key history, senior management positions will come to be filled by non-family members during the course of 2022.

Title: Defective pixel
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defective_pixel
Summary: A defective pixel or a dead pixel is a pixel on a liquid crystal display (LCD) that is not functioning properly. The ISO standard ISO 13406-2 distinguishes between three different types of defective pixels, while hardware companies tend to have further distinguishing types.

Similar defects can also occur in charge-coupled device (CCD) and CMOS image sensors in digital cameras. In these devices, defective pixels fail to sense light levels correctly, whereas defective pixels in LCDs fail to reproduce light levels correctly.

Title: List of flat panel display manufacturers
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_flat_panel_display_manufacturers
Summary: Flat-panel displays are thin panels of glass or plastic used for electronically displaying text, images, or video. Liquid crystal displays (LCD), OLED (organic light emitting diode) and microLED displays are different kinds of flat panel displays. This is a list of display manufacturers that own and operate cleanroom facilities and specialized equipment for making flat panel displays, including LCD, OLED and microLED displays.
LCD uses a liquid crystal that reacts to an electric current blocking light or allowing it to pass through the panel, whereas OLED/microLED displays consist of electroluminescent organic/inorganic materials that generate light when a current is passed through the material.
LCD, OLED and microLED displays are driven using LTPS, IGZO, LTPO, and A-Si TFT transistor technologies as their backplane using ITO to supply current to the transistors and in turn to the liquid crystal or electroluminescent material. Segment and passive OLED and LC displays (LCDs) do not use a backplane but use indium tin oxide (ITO), a transparent conductive material, to pass current to the electroluminescent material or liquid crystal.