Title: Grand Slam (tennis)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grand_Slam_(tennis)
Summary: The Grand Slam in tennis is the achievement of winning all four major championships in one discipline in a calendar year. In doubles, a Grand Slam may be achieved as a team or as an individual with different partners. Winning all four major championships consecutively but not within the same calendar year is referred to as a "non-calendar-year Grand Slam", while winning the four majors at any point during the course of a career is known as a "Career Grand Slam".
The term Grand Slam is also attributed to the Grand Slam tournaments, referred to as Majors, and they are the world's four most important annual professional tennis tournaments. They offer the most ranking points, prize money, public and media attention, the greatest strength and size of the field and, in recent years, the longest matches for men (best of five sets, best of three for the women). 
The tournaments are overseen by World Tennis, rather than the separate men's and women's tour organizing bodies, the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) and Women's Tennis Association (WTA), but both the ATP and WTA award ranking points based on players' performances in them.
The Grand Slam tournaments are the Australian Open in January, the French Open in late May to early June, Wimbledon in late June to early July, and the US Open in late August to early September, with each played over two weeks. The Australian and the US tournaments are played on hard courts, the French on clay court, and Wimbledon on grass court. Wimbledon is the oldest tournament, founded in 1877, followed by the US in 1881, the French in 1891 (major in 1925), and the Australian in 1905, but it was not until 1923 that all four were designated as "Official Championships".

Title: List of career achievements by Roger Federer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_career_achievements_by_Roger_Federer
Summary: Roger Federer has won 20 Grand Slam singles titles, third to Rafael Nadal (22) and Novak Djokovic (24). He has reached 31 Grand Slam finals, second behind Djokovic (38), including 10 consecutive, and another 8 consecutive (the two longest finals streaks in history), 46 semifinal appearances, second behind Djokovic, and 58 quarterfinal appearances, second behind Djokovic. He is one of eight men to have won a career Grand Slam (winning all four Grand Slams at least once) which he achieved in 2009 and is one of four players to have won a career Grand Slam on three different surfaces, hard, grass and clay courts. Federer has won 8 Wimbledon titles, an all-time record. From 2005 to 2010 Federer reached the finals in 18 out of 19 consecutive grand slams, winning 12 titles. He is the only player to win 3 different tournaments at least 5 times (Wimbledon, Australian Open, US Open). He is the only player to win two Grand Slams five consecutive times at Wimbledon from 2003 to 2007 and the US Open from 2004 to 2008. Federer has spent 310 weeks as the No. 1 ranked player in the world, second only to Djokovic, and a record of 237 consecutive weeks.
Federer has won 11 hard court Grand Slam titles (6 at the Australian Open and 5 at the US Open), which is second behind Djokovic (14). He is the only player to win 5 consecutive titles at the US Open (2004–08). Federer has won an all-time record 7 Cincinnati Masters 1000 titles. He has also won an all-time record 10 Swiss Indoors titles and has reached the final at the Swiss Indoors for a total of 15 years (2000–01, 2006–15, 2017–19) and 10 consecutive years (2006–15) and is the only player to ever achieve both feats in the Open Era in any tournament. Federer has also registered a 56-match win streak on hard courts which is the all-time record.
Federer's most successful surface is grass where he has won an Open Era record 19 grass court titles including an all-time record 10 Halle Open titles and an all-time record of 8 Wimbledon titles. He reached an all-time record 7 consecutive Wimbledon finals from 2003 to 2009. Federer has the longest grass court winning streak in the Open Era as he won 65 consecutive matches on grass from 2003 to 2008 where he was beaten by Nadal in the 2008 Wimbledon final. Due to his success on grass courts, Federer is considered by many as the greatest grass court player of all time.
Federer has also been successful on clay courts. He has reached 5 French Open finals (losing in 4 finals to Nadal, who is widely considered to be the greatest clay court player ever), and has won 6 Masters 1000 titles on clay from 16 finals. Federer won his first and only French Open title in 2009 when he also won Wimbledon, thus achieving the "Channel Slam" alongside Rod Laver, Björn Borg, Nadal and later Djokovic and Carlos Alcaraz. Federer has won 11 clay court titles from 26 finals (11 of his clay court finals losses have been to Nadal, against 2 finals wins). His consistency in his prime years on clay was surpassed only by Nadal, and Federer was widely viewed as the second-greatest clay court player from 2005 to 2011 when he achieved 1 quarterfinal, 1 semi-final, 4 runners-up, and 1 title (he succumbed only to Nadal in the semi-final and finals he lost).
Federer is the only player to register at least ten titles on clay, grass and hard courts; he has 71 hard court titles, 19 grass court titles, and 11 clay court titles.  In his prime years, he won an unparalleled 11 Grand Slam tournaments (3 Australian Open titles, 4 Wimbledon titles and 4 US Open titles) of 16 events from 2004 to 2007. He reached the finals of all four Grand Slam tournaments in the same calendar year in 2006, 2007, and 2009 which is an all time record, joining Rod Laver (1969) and later joined by Djokovic (2015, 2021, 2023). In the World Tour Finals, the prestigious year-end tournament featuring the top-8 players in the year-end rankings, Federer has won 6 titles from a record 10 finals, and reached 16 semi-finals at 17 appearances.  He has qualified for the tournament a record 14 consecutive years from 2002 through 2015.
Federer was selected by fellow players as winner of the Stefan Edberg Sportsmanship Award 13 times (2004–2009, 2011–2017). Fans voted for him in 2020 to receive the ATPWorldTour.com Fans' Favourite Award for an 18th straight year (since 2003). Since his Grand Slam winning debut in 2003, Federer has won a record total of 39 ATP World Tour Awards.
As of November 2020 Federer holds the world's second highest number of performance-based Guinness World Records ever achieved within a single athletic discipline (37 total / 26 performance based).

Title: List of career achievements by Rafael Nadal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_career_achievements_by_Rafael_Nadal
Summary: This article lists various career, tournament, and seasonal achievements by the Spanish tennis player Rafael Nadal.

Title: All-time tennis records – Men's singles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/All-time_tennis_records_%E2%80%93_Men%27s_singles
Summary: This article covers the period from 1877 to present. Before the beginning of the Open Era in April 1968, only amateurs were allowed to compete in established tennis tournaments, including the four Grand Slam tournaments (also known as the majors). Wimbledon, the oldest of the majors, was founded in 1877, followed by the US Open in 1881, the French Open in 1891 and the Australian Open in 1905. Beginning in 1905 and continuing to the present day, all four majors have been played yearly, with the exception of during the two World Wars, 1986 for the Australian Open, and 2020 for Wimbledon. The Australian Open is the first major of the year (January), followed by the French Open (May–June), Wimbledon (June–July) and the US Open (August–September). There was no prize money and players were compensated for travel expenses only. A player who wins all four majors, in singles or as part of a doubles team, in the same calendar year is said to have achieved a "Calendar Year Grand Slam". If the player wins all four consecutively, but not in the same calendar year, it is called a "Non-Calendar Year Grand Slam". Winning all four at some point in a career, even if not consecutively, is referred to as a "Career Grand Slam". Winning the four majors and a gold medal in tennis at the Summer Olympics in the same calendar year has been called a "Golden Slam" since 1988. Winning all four majors plus an Olympic gold at some point in a career, even if not consecutively, is referred to as a "Career Golden Slam". Winning the year-end championship while also having won a Golden Slam is referred to as a "Super Slam". Winning all four majors, an Olympic gold, and the year-end championships at some point in a career, even if not consecutively, is referred to as a "Career Super Slam". Winning the four majors in all three disciplines a player is eligible for–singles, doubles and mixed doubles–is considered winning a "boxed set" of Grand Slam titles.
Prior to 1924, the major tennis championships, governed by the International Lawn Tennis Federation (ILTF), were the World Hard Court Championships, World Grass Court Championships (Wimbledon), and World Covered Court Championships.
Many top tennis players turned professional before the Open Era to play legally for prize money. They played in separate professional events and were banned from competing any of the four Grand Slam tournaments. They mostly competed on pro tours involving head-to-head competition, but also in professional tournaments as the biggest events on the pro tour. In addition to the head-to-head tours, there were the annual professional tournaments called "Championship tournaments" (known retrospectively as "professional majors" or "professional Grand Slams" where the world's top professional players usually played. These tournaments held a certain tradition and longevity.
The oldest of these three professional majors, was the U.S. Pro Tennis Championships, played at a variety of different venues and on a variety of different surfaces, between 1925 and 1999, although it was no longer a major after 1967. Between 1954 and 1962, the U.S. Pro was played indoors in Cleveland and was billed as the World Professional Championships. The most prestigious of the three was generally the Wembley Championships. Played between 1934 and 1990, at the Wembley Arena in England, it was unofficially usually considered the world's championship until 1967. The third professional major was the French Pro Championship, played between 1934 and 1968, on the clay courts of Roland Garros, apart from 1963 to 1967, when it was played on the indoor wood courts of Stade Coubertin.
The Open Era of tennis began in 1968, when the Grand Slam tournaments agreed to allow professional players to compete with amateurs. A professional tennis tour was created for the entire year, where everyone could compete. This meant that the division that had existed for many years between these two groups had finally come to an end, which made the tennis world into one unified competition.
The first tournament to go "Open" started on 22 April 1968 was the British Hard Court Championships at The West Hants Club in Bournemouth, England. The first Grand Slam tournament to do so was the 1968 French Open, starting on 27 May.

Title: List of career achievements by Novak Djokovic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_career_achievements_by_Novak_Djokovic
Summary: This article lists various career, tournament, and seasonal achievements by Serbian tennis player Novak Djokovic.
Djokovic has won an all-time record 24 Grand Slam singles titles. He has been the world No. 1 for a record total 428 weeks in a record 13 different years, and the year-end world No. 1 a record eight times. Djokovic is the only man in tennis history to be the reigning champion of all four majors at once across all three different surfaces and the only one to achieve a triple Career Grand Slam by winning all four majors at least three times. He has won a record 72 Big Titles, winning all four Grand Slams tournaments, all nine ATP Masters tournaments, the Year-end Championships and Olympic Gold, completing both the Career Golden Slam and Career Super Slam. Djokovic is widely regarded by sports analysts, tennis players and media pundits as one of the greatest tennis players of all time.
In addition to his winning records at majors, Djokovic has reached 38 Grand Slam finals, playing at least seven finals at each major and winning at least 95 matches at each major, all of which are all-time records. He also had a record five different winning streaks of 26 or more matches at majors with 30 being the longest (2015–16), an Open Era record.
Djokovic has won a record 40 ATP Masters titles. By 2018, he had won Masters titles across all nine tournaments, becoming the first player to achieve the Career Golden Masters. As a result, he is considered the most accomplished player in ATP Masters history for his versatility and success in winning Masters events on a consistent basis. Moreover, Djokovic has won a record seven Year-end Championship titles, including a record streak of four titles from 2012 to 2015.
Djokovic's 2011 season is considered one of the greatest seasons by a tennis player ever. Djokovic won 10 titles across all three different surfaces and defeated Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer a total of 10 times collectively with a match record of 10–1 against them. Djokovic went on a 41-match win streak and set a then-record of 5 Masters titles won in a season. In 2015, Djokovic won three majors in a season for the second time, improved his record of most Masters won in a season by claiming six titles, and finished the year by winning his fourth consecutive Year-end Championships title. Djokovic also made the finals of all elite tournaments he played in 2015, winning a season-record 10 Big Titles across all surfaces and setting a rankings record of 16,950 points while defeating a record 31 Top-10 players in the season.
Djokovic is unanimously regarded as the greatest hardcourt player ever. He has won a record 50 Big Titles on hardcourts, including the most Majors, most Masters and most Year-end Championship titles.
With his 7 Wimbledon titles, Djokovic is also regarded as one of the greatest players on grass courts in history.
Besides hard courts and grass courts, Djokovic has won 21 titles on clay, including three French Open titles, Olympic gold and 11 Masters titles, the latter of which is second only to Nadal's record of 26. Djokovic is one of three players, along with Robin Söderling and Alexander Zverev, to defeat Nadal at Roland Garros and the only one to do so twice. He is the only player to defeat Nadal in all three clay-court Masters events and the one who ended Nadal's consecutive run of 8 Monte Carlo titles in the 2013 final. 
Djokovic is the only player to win at least 3 majors across all three different surfaces (hard, clay and grass) and the only player to hold all major titles at once across the three surfaces. He is also the only player to win 6 Big Titles or more at one tournament on the three surfaces, the Australian Open being the most notable on hardcourts (outdoors), Wimbledon on grass, the Italian Open on clay, and the Year-end Championship on hardcourts (indoors).
Djokovic holds the records for most victories against top 10 and top 5 players. Furthermore, he has won a record 61 titles by defeating multiple top 10 players and a record 24 titles by defeating multiple top 5 players en route. He has been part of the two most prolific rivalries in the Open Era, versus Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer, with him having a winning head-to-head record against them. He is the only player to defeat Nadal and Federer in all four Grand Slam tournaments, and the only one to defeat them at their most successful major tournament more than once. Djokovic has scored 20 or more victories against a record seven different players; Nadal, Federer, Murray, Wawrinka, Berdych, Monfils, Cilic. In 2011, Djokovic had the most dominant record versus a world No. 1 during a single season, going 5–0 against Nadal before overtaking him as No. 1.