Title: Guinness World Records
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guinness_World_Records
Summary: Guinness World Records (), known from its inception in 1955 until 1999 as The Guinness Book of Records and in previous United States editions as The Guinness Book of World Records, is a British reference book published annually, listing world records both of human achievements and the extremes of the natural world. Sir Hugh Beaver created the concept in order to settle arguments debated in pubs, and twin brothers Norris and Ross McWhirter co-founded the book in London in late August 1955.
The first edition topped the bestseller list in the United Kingdom by Christmas 1955. The following year the book was launched internationally, and as of the 2026 edition, it is now in its 71st year of publication, published in 100 countries and 40 languages, and maintains over 53,000 records in its database.
The international franchise has extended beyond print to include television series and museums. The popularity of the franchise has resulted in Guinness World Records becoming the primary international source for cataloguing and verification of a huge number of world records. The organisation employs record adjudicators to verify the authenticity of the setting and breaking of records.
Following a series of owners, the franchise has been owned by the Jim Pattison Group since 2008, with its headquarters moved to South Quay Plaza, Canary Wharf, London, in 2017. Since 2008, Guinness World Records has orientated its business model away from selling books, and towards creating new world records as publicity exercises for individuals and organisations, which has attracted criticism.

Title: List of world records in athletics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_world_records_in_athletics
Summary: World records in athletics are ratified by World Athletics. Athletics records comprise the best performances in the sports of track and field, road running and racewalking.
Records are kept for all events contested at the Olympic Games and some others. Unofficial records for some other events are kept by track and field statisticians. The only non-metric track distance for which official records are kept is the mile run.

Title: FIFA World Cup records and statistics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFA_World_Cup_records_and_statistics
Summary: As of the 2026 edition, 84 national teams have competed at the finals of the men's FIFA World Cup. Brazil is the only team to have appeared in all 23 tournaments to date, with Germany having participated in 21, Argentina in 19, and Italy and Mexico both in 18. Eight nations have won the tournament. The inaugural winners in 1930 were Uruguay; the current champions are Spain. The most successful nation is Brazil, which has won the cup on five occasions. Five teams have appeared in FIFA World Cup finals without winning, while twelve more have appeared in the semi-finals.

Title: Nigeria women's national football team
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nigeria_women%27s_national_football_team
Summary: The Nigeria women's national football team, nicknamed the Super Falcons, represents Nigeria in international women's football and is controlled by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). The team is Africa's most successful international women's football team, having won a record ten Women's Africa Cup of Nations titles. The most recent came at the 2024 Women's Africa Cup of Nations, which was postponed by twelve months because of the 2024 Summer Olympics and played in Morocco from 5 to 26 July 2025; Nigeria recovered from a two-goal deficit to beat the hosts 3–2 in the final at the Olympic Stadium in Rabat on 26 July 2025. The team is also the only women's national team from the Confederation of African Football to have reached the quarterfinals in both the FIFA Women's World Cup and the Summer Olympics.
They qualified for every edition of the FIFA Women's World Cup until missing out on qualification for the 2027 edition, with their best performance at the 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup where they reached the quarterfinals.
Since FIFA rankings were established in 2003, the team has been ranked No. 1 in Africa and have never relinquished that position. Their 23rd position in the FIFA world ranking achieved on three occasions remains the highest they have ever attained.

Title: List of footballers with the most goals in a single game
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_footballers_with_the_most_goals_in_a_single_game
Summary: This is a list of players with the most goals in a football game. This list only includes players who have scored the most multiple goals in first class or fully professional matches for country or club. Players are listed by number of goals scored in an individual game. Players on equal goals are listed in chronological order.  The current world record for an international is held by Archie Thompson, who scored 13 goals against American Samoa in Australia's 31–0 victory during the 2002 FIFA World Cup qualification. David Zdrilic scored 8 goals.
In November 2022, Shokhan Nooraldin Salihi scored 15 goals in the match of Al-Hilal against Sama in the 2022–23 Saudi Women's Premier League. In this match, Al-Hilal beat Sama 18–0. She broke the previous record of Passang Tshering for most goals in any top-flight match with 14 each. In the most prolific European football leagues, the Premier League (and the Football League First Division before it), La Liga, Serie A and the Bundesliga, the top scorers per game have much lower tallies: seven in England and Spain and six in Italy and Germany. The last player in these leagues to score seven goals in a match was László Kubala in 1952 for Barcelona.