Title: Formula One
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formula_One
Summary: Formula One (F1) is the highest class of worldwide racing for open-wheel, single-seater formula racing cars run by the Formula One Group and sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The FIA Formula One World Championship has been one of the world's premier forms of motorsport since its inaugural running in 1950 and is often considered to be the pinnacle of motorsport. The word formula in the name refers to the set of rules all participant cars must follow. A Formula One season consists of a series of races, known as Grands Prix. Grands Prix take place in multiple countries and continents on either purpose-built circuits or closed roads, as street circuits.
A points scoring system is used at Grands Prix to determine two annual World Championships: one for the drivers, and one for the constructors—now synonymous with teams. Each driver must hold a valid Super Licence, the highest class of racing licence the FIA issues, and the races must be held on Grade One tracks, the highest grade rating the FIA issues for circuits.
The commercial rights to F1 are leased to Liberty Media Corporation, acquired in 2017 for an estimated $8 billion, previously owned by British business magnate Bernie Ecclestone. The new ownership added five Grands Prix to the calendar: Miami, Las Vegas, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Dutch.
Formula One cars are the world's fastest regulated road-course racing cars, owing to high cornering speeds achieved by generating large amounts of aerodynamic downforce, most of which is generated by front and rear wings, as well as underbody tunnels. The cars depend on electronics, aerodynamics, suspension, and tyres. Traction control, launch control, automatic shifting, and other electronic driving aids were first banned in 1994. They were briefly reintroduced in 2001 but were banned once more in 2004 and later 2008.
The cost cap as of the 2026 season stands at US$215 million, but the actual total cost of running an F1 team often exceeds that due to exclusions outside the cost cap. It is because of this that Formula One's financial and political battles are widely reported. The United Kingdom is the hub of Formula One racing, with six out of the eleven teams based there.

Title: Wimbledon Championships
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wimbledon_Championships
Summary: The Wimbledon Championships, commonly called Wimbledon, is a tennis tournament organised annually in Wimbledon, London, by the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club in collaboration with the Lawn Tennis Association. It is chronologically the third of the four Grand Slam tennis events each year, held after the Australian Open and the French Open and before the US Open. It is the oldest tennis tournament in the world and is widely regarded as the most prestigious. 
Wimbledon has been held since 1877 and is played on outdoor grass courts; it is the only tennis major still played on grass, the traditional surface. It is also the only major that retains a night-time curfew for logistical reasons, with matches continuing until 23:00 BST under floodlighting since 2009.
The tournament traditionally takes place over two weeks in late June and early July, starting either on the last Monday in June or the first Monday in July and culminating with the Ladies' and Gentlemen's Singles Finals, scheduled for the Saturday and Sunday at the end of the second week. Five major events are held each year, with additional junior and invitational competitions also taking place. The tournament was not held during World War II, and was cancelled in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Line judges were replaced by electronic calling systems in 2025.
Wimbledon traditions include a strict all-white dress code for competitors, and royal patronage. Strawberries and cream are traditionally consumed at the tournament, in latter years accompanied by champagne. Unlike other tournaments, advertising is minimal and low-key from official suppliers such as Slazenger and Rolex. The relationship with Slazenger is the world's longest-running sporting sponsorship, providing balls for the tournament since 1902.

Title: Fenerbahçe S.K.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fenerbah%C3%A7e_S.K.
Summary: Fenerbahçe Spor Kulübü (Turkish pronunciation: [feˈnæɾbahtʃe], Fenerbahçe Sports Club), commonly known as Fenerbahçe or colloquially Fener, is a Turkish professional multi-sport club based in Istanbul, Turkey. Fenerbahçe is parent to a number of different competitive departments including football, basketball, volleyball, table tennis, athletics, swimming, sailing, boxing, rowing, and eSports, which have won both international and domestic titles over the club's history. Some departments also have parasports divisions.
Fenerbahçe is one of the oldest and most successful multi-sport clubs in Turkey, having won 20 international titles, including 16 major European titles, one World championship, three regional Balkan titles and numerous Mediterranean titles across five sport departments. It is among the few clubs in Europe to have won titles across multiple departments.
Fenerbahçe is one of the most supported Turkish clubs with millions of fans inside Turkey and all over the world. The club has 309,026 paid members as of 2012 while having 55.000 congress members as of 2025.
In its 101st year of 2008; with a market value of $2 billion, it surpassed Manchester United to become the world's most valuable club. Also, in March 2008, Fenerbahçe's record application was accepted by Guinness World Records, which envisages Fenerbahçe to have the highest number of medal and trophy achievements on the planet with its 9 departments entirely, a total of 1134 cups and medals.

Title: All-time tennis records – Women's singles
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/All-time_tennis_records_%E2%80%93_Women%27s_singles
Summary: This article covers the period 1884 to present. Before the beginning of the Open era in April 1968, only amateurs were allowed to compete in established tennis tournaments, including the four Grand Slams. Wimbledon, the oldest of the majors, was founded in 1877, followed by the US Open in 1881, the French Open in 1891, and the Australian Open in 1905. Beginning in 1905 and continuing to the present day, all four majors have been played yearly, with the exception of the two World Wars, 1986 for the Australian Open, and 2020 for Wimbledon. The Australian Open is the first major of the year (January), followed by the French Open (May–June), Wimbledon (June–July), and US Open (August–September). 
There was no prize money and players were compensated for travel expenses only. A player who wins all four current major tournaments in the same calendar year, as an individual or as part of a doubles team, is said to have achieved the "Grand Slam". If the player wins all four consecutively, but not in the same calendar year, it is called a "Non-Calendar Year Grand Slam". Winning all four at some point in a career, even if not consecutively, is referred to as a "Career Grand Slam". Winning the four majors and a gold medal in tennis at the Summer Olympics has been called a "Golden Slam" since 1988. Winning all four plus gold at some point in a career, even if not consecutively, is referred to as a "Career Golden Slam". Winning the Year-end Championship also having won a Golden Slam is referred to as a "Super Slam". Winning the four majors in all three disciplines a player is eligible for–singles, doubles, and mixed doubles–is considered winning a "boxed set" of Grand Slam titles. 
The current Grand Slams are the four most prestigious tournaments in the world held every year, they are distinguished by participation from almost every top player and by their two-week duration, 128-player draw in women's singles. It's extremely rare for a player to win all four tournaments, "the Grand Slam", in one calendar year. This was only achieved three times since 1888 by Maureen Connolly, Margaret Court, and Steffi Graf, the latter of whom stands alone in winning the "Golden Slam". These are some of the important records since the start of women's tennis in 1884. Most statistics are based on the data at the WTA Tour and International Tennis Federation, the official websites of each respective Grand Slam tournament and published sources though this is not a definitive list due to the time periods involved. Active streaks and active players are in boldface.

Title: Cardi B
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardi_B
Summary: Belcalis Marlenis Almánzar (formerly Cephus; born October 11, 1992), known professionally as Cardi B, is an American rapper. Born and raised in New York City, she is known for her energetic rap flow and outspoken lyrics. Since launching her music career in 2016 and releasing her two mixtapes, Cardi B has been credited for elevating the relevance of female rappers in popular music.
Her first studio album, Invasion of Privacy (2018), debuted atop the Billboard 200 with the largest female rap album streaming week of all time and became the best-selling and the highest-certified female rap album of the 21st century. Ranked by Rolling Stone as the best debut album of all time by a female rapper, it made Cardi B the first solo female artist in history to win the Grammy Award for Best Rap Album. Its singles "Bodak Yellow" and "I Like It" both topped the Billboard Hot 100 and were certified diamond by the RIAA; the former made Cardi B the first female rapper in the 21st century to top the Hot 100 with a solo song and the first in history to achieve a diamond-certified song, while the latter made her the first-ever with multiple number-one songs. Her third US number-one, the collaboration "Girls Like You" in 2018, made her the first female rapper ever to earn multiple RIAA diamond-certified songs.
Cardi B's second album, Am I the Drama? (2025), made her the only female rapper in history to have her first two albums debut atop the Billboard 200. It became the female rap album with the highest certification of the 2020s, the most weeks inside the top ten of the Billboard 200 in the 2020s, and the most charting songs (18) in Billboard Hot 100 history. Including the US top-ten song "Outside" and US number-ones "WAP" and "Up", it is tied with Invasion of Privacy as the female rap album with the most Hot 100 number-ones (two each). "WAP" is the only female rap collaboration to debut atop the Hot 100 and had a large cultural impact.
Cardi B is the female rapper with the most number-one singles (five) on the Billboard Hot 100, the only female rapper to achieve multiple solo number-ones, and the only to earn number-one singles in two decades (2010s and 2020s). The highest-certified female rapper in US digital single sales (70 million), Cardi B has the most diamond-certified songs (four) among female rappers—with "Bodak Yellow" being the highest-certified female rap song. Furthermore, Invasion of Privacy is the most-streamed female rap album on Apple Music and Spotify. A Grammy Award winner and the female rapper with the most Billboard Music Awards (8), Guinness World Records (8), BET Awards (21) and ASCAP Songwriter of the Year awards (2), Cardi B has also won nine American Music Awards, four MTV Video Music Awards, four NAACP Image Awards, and four Soul Train Music Awards. Time listed her as one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2018, while Billboard named her Woman of the Year in 2020 and ranked Invasion of Privacy as the top female rap album of the 2010s.