Title: Time (magazine)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_(magazine)
Summary: Time is an American news magazine based in New York City. It was published weekly for nearly a century. Starting in March 2020, it was published every other week. It was first published in New York City on March 3, 1923, and for many years it was run by its co-founder, Henry Luce.
A European edition, Time Europe, is published in London and also covers the Middle East, Africa, and Latin America. An Asian edition, Time Asia, is based in Hong Kong. The South Pacific edition, which covers Australia, New Zealand, and the Pacific Islands, is based in Sydney. Time France began publication in 2025.
Since 2018, Time has been owned by Salesforce founder Marc Benioff, who acquired it from Meredith Corporation. Benioff currently publishes the magazine through the company Time USA, LLC.

Title: Time Person of the Year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_Person_of_the_Year
Summary: Person of the Year, called Man of the Year or Woman of the Year until 1999, is an annual issue of the American news magazine and website Time featuring a person, group, idea, or object that "for better or for worse ... has done the most to influence the events of the year". The Time website or a partner organization also runs an annual online reader's poll that has no effect on the selection, although no poll was held in 2023 or 2024.

Title: Time 100
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_100
Summary: The Time 100 is a list published by the American news magazine Time of the 100 most influential people in the world. First published in 1999 as the result of a debate among American academics, politicians, and journalists, the list is now a highly publicized annual event. It is generally considered an honor to be included on the list, but, much like the magazine's Person of the Year, Time makes it clear that entrants are recognized for changing the world, regardless of the consequences of their actions. The final list of influential individuals is exclusively chosen by Time editors, with nominations coming from the Time 100 alumni and the magazine's international writing staff. Only the winner of the Reader's Poll, conducted days before the official list is revealed, is chosen by the general public. The corresponding commemorative gala is held annually in Manhattan, and has emerged as one of the world's most celebrated galas as well as high fashion events.
In 2019, Time began publishing the Time 100 Next list, which "spotlights 100 rising stars who are shaping the future of business, entertainment, sports, politics, science, health and more".

Title: You (Time Person of the Year)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_(Time_Person_of_the_Year)
Summary: "You" was the official choice for Time's Person of the Year in 2006. The magazine set out to recognize the millions of people who anonymously contribute user-generated content to websites such as YouTube, MySpace, Facebook, Wikipedia and other wikis, and the multitudes of other websites featuring user contribution.
While the status had been given before to inanimate objects, with the personal computer being the "Machine of the Year" for 1982, as well as collections of people or an abstract representative of a movement, the choice of "You" attracted criticism from commentators in publications such as The Atlantic for being too much of a pop culture gimmick. A 2014 New York Daily News article named the 2006 award as one of the ten most controversial "Person of the Year" moments in the history of Time. The news magazine experienced generally successful sales.

Title: MusiCares Person of the Year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MusiCares_Person_of_the_Year
Summary: Person of the Year is an annual gala presented by MusiCares, a 501(c)(3) public charity and affiliate of The Recording Academy (the organization that distributes the Grammy Awards), to raise funds for MusiCares’ mission and to honor recording artists for their creative achievements and their dedication to philanthropy. Chosen by the MusiCares Foundation, award recipients are honored during "Grammy Week" (a string of events culminating with the annual Grammy Awards ceremony). Person of the year gala consistes of a seated dinner and start-studded tribute concert.
From 1991 to 1993, the first three MusiCares Person of the Year awards were presented to American musicians David Crosby, Bonnie Raitt, and Natalie Cole. 2018 honorees Fleetwood Mac became the first group to receive the award. Dolly Parton was the first country artist to receive the honor, in 2019. In 2023, Smokey Robinson and Berry Gordy received the award, marking the first time two luminaries were honored in one year. 2025 honoree Jerry Garcia of the Grateful Dead would be the first musician to receive the award posthumously. The award was not presented in 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.