Title: List of capitals in the United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_capitals_in_the_United_States
Summary: This is a list of capital cities of the United States, including places that serve or have served as federal, state, insular area, territorial, colonial and Native American capitals.
Washington, D.C. has been the federal capital of the United States since 1800. Each U.S. state has its own capital city, as do many of its insular areas. Most states have not changed their capital city since becoming a state, but the capital cities of their respective preceding colonies, territories, kingdoms, and republics typically changed multiple times. There have also been other governments within the current borders of the United States with their own capitals, such as the Republic of Texas, Native American nations, and other unrecognized governments.

Title: List of extreme points of the United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_extreme_points_of_the_United_States
Summary: This is a list of points in the United States that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location in the country. Also included are extreme points in elevation, extreme distances and other points of peculiar geographic interest.

Title: List of United States cities by population
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_United_States_cities_by_population
Summary: This is a list of the most populous municipal corporations of the United States. As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an incorporated place includes cities, towns, villages, boroughs, and municipalities. A few exceptional census-designated places (CDPs) are also included in the Census Bureau's listing of incorporated places. Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of government that includes the entire population of a county, or county equivalent. Some consolidated city-counties, however, include multiple incorporated places. This list presents only the portion of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place.
This list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined limits; the populations of other municipalities considered suburbs of a central city are listed separately, and unincorporated areas within urban agglomerations are not included. Therefore, a different ranking is evident when considering U.S. urban areas or metropolitan areas.

Title: List of states and territories of the United States
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_states_and_territories_of_the_United_States
Summary: The United States of America is a federal republic consisting of 50 states and a federal district (Washington, D.C., the capital city of the United States). The U.S. also possesses five major territories and nine minor islands. Both the states and the United States as a whole are each sovereign jurisdictions. The Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution allows states to exercise all powers of government not delegated to the federal government. Each state has its own constitution and government. All states and their residents are represented in the federal Congress, a bicameral legislature consisting of the Senate and the House of Representatives. Each state elects two senators, while representatives are distributed among the states in proportion to the most recent constitutionally mandated decennial census. 
Each state is entitled to select a number of electors to vote in the Electoral College, the body that elects the nation's president and vice president, equal to the total of representatives and senators in Congress from that state. The federal district does not have representatives in the Senate, but has a non-voting delegate in the House, and it is entitled to electors in the Electoral College. Congress can admit more states, but it cannot create a new state from territory of an existing state or merge two or more states into one without the consent of all states involved. Each new state is admitted on an equal footing with the existing states.
The United States asserts sovereignty over fourteen territories outside the 50 states and federal district—five of them (American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the United States Virgin Islands) with a permanent, non-military population. Nine others (the United States Minor Outlying Islands) are mostly uninhabited. With the exception of Navassa Island, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, which are located in the Caribbean, all U.S. territories are located in the Pacific Ocean. One, Palmyra Atoll, is considered to be incorporated, meaning the full body of the Constitution has been applied to it. The other territories are officially unincorporated, meaning that the Constitution does not fully apply to them. Ten territories (the Minor Outlying Islands and American Samoa) are considered to be unorganized, i.e., an organic act of administration has not been adopted by Congress. The four other territories are organized, meaning an organic act has been approved. The five inhabited territories each have limited autonomy and elect their own territorial legislatures and governors. However, their residents cannot vote in federal elections, including the U.S. presidential elections, although they are represented by non-voting delegates in the U.S. Congress (specifically, in the House of Representatives).
The largest state by population is California, with a population of 39,538,223 people. The smallest is Wyoming, with a population of 576,851 people. The federal district has a larger population (689,545) than both Wyoming and Vermont. The largest state by area is Alaska, encompassing 665,384 square miles (1,723,340 km2). The smallest is Rhode Island, encompassing 1,545 square miles (4,000 km2). The most recent states to be admitted, Alaska and Hawaii, were admitted in 1959. The largest territory by population is Puerto Rico, with a population of 3,285,874 people, larger than 21 states. The smallest is the Northern Mariana Islands, with a population of 47,329 people. Puerto Rico is the largest territory by area, encompassing 5,325 square miles (13,790 km2). The smallest territory, Kingman Reef, encompasses 0.005 square miles (0.013 km2), or a little larger than 3 acres.

Title: List of United States cities by crime rate
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_United_States_cities_by_crime_rate
Summary: The following table of United States cities by crime rate is based on Federal Bureau of Investigation Uniform Crime Reports (UCR) statistics from 2024 for the 200 most populous cities in America that have reported data to the FBI UCR system.
The population numbers are based on U.S. Census estimates for the year end. The number of murders includes nonnegligent manslaughter. This list is based on the reporting. In most cases, the city and the reporting agency are identical. However, in Nashville and Las Vegas, the reporting agency has more than one municipality.
The combined table for 2024 does not include data for some large cities, such as Jacksonville,  Atlanta, New Orleans, and Orlando. Their data is presented separately, based on reports from previous years. More recent data can be accessed on the FBI site.