Title: PlayStation (console)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PlayStation_(console)
Summary: The PlayStation (codenamed PSX, abbreviated as PS, and retronymically PS1 or PS one) is a home video game console developed and marketed by Sony Computer Entertainment. It was released in Japan on 3 December 1994, followed by North America on 9 September 1995, Europe on 29 September 1995, and other regions following thereafter. As a fifth-generation console, the PlayStation primarily competed with the Nintendo 64 and the Sega Saturn.
Sony began developing the PlayStation after a failed venture with Nintendo to create a CD-ROM peripheral for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in the early 1990s. The console was primarily designed by Ken Kutaragi and Sony Computer Entertainment in Japan, while additional development was outsourced in the United Kingdom. An emphasis on 3D polygon graphics was placed at the forefront of the console's design. PlayStation game production was designed to be streamlined and inclusive, enticing the support of many third party developers.
The console proved popular for its extensive game library, popular franchises, low retail price, and aggressive youth marketing which advertised it as the preferable console for adolescents and adults. Critically acclaimed games that defined the console include Gran Turismo, Crash Bandicoot, Spyro the Dragon, Tomb Raider, Resident Evil, Metal Gear Solid, Tekken 3, Final Fantasy VII, and Silent Hill. Sony ceased production of the PlayStation on 23 March 2006—over eleven years after it had been released, and in the same year the PlayStation 3 debuted. More than 4,000 PlayStation games were released, with cumulative sales of 962 million units.
The PlayStation signaled Sony's rise to power in the video game industry. It received acclaim and sold strongly; in less than a decade, it became the first computer entertainment platform to ship over 100 million units. Its use of compact discs heralded the game industry's transition from cartridges. The PlayStation's success led to a line of successors, beginning with the PlayStation 2 in 2000. In the same year, Sony released a smaller and cheaper model, the PS one.

Title: Sony
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony
Summary: Sony Group Corporation, colloquially known as Sony, is a Japanese multinational conglomerate headquartered at the Sony City building in Minato, Tokyo. The Sony Group encompasses various businesses, including electronics, imaging and sensing (Sony Semiconductor Solutions), film and television (Sony Pictures Entertainment), music (Sony Music Group and Sony Music Entertainment Japan), video games (Sony Interactive Entertainment), and others.
Sony was founded in 1946 as Tokyo Tsushin Kogyo K.K. by Masaru Ibuka and Akio Morita. In 1958, the company adopted the name Sony Corporation. Initially an electronics firm, it gained early recognition for products such as the TR-55 transistor radio and the CV-2000 home video tape recorder, contributing significantly to Japan's post-war economic recovery. After Ibuka's retirement in the 1970s, Morita served as chairman until 1994, overseeing Sony's rise as a global brand recognized for innovation in consumer electronics. Landmark products included the Trinitron color television, the Walkman portable audio player, and the co-development of the compact disc.
Expanding beyond electronics, Sony acquired CBS Records in 1988 and Columbia Pictures Entertainment in 1989, while also entering the home video game console market with the launch of the PlayStation in 1994. In Japan, the company further diversified by establishing a financial services division in 2001, that would be turned into a separate company in September 2025, with the group maintaining 20% of the shares. In 2021, the company was renamed Sony Group Corporation as it transitioned into a holding company structure, with its electronics business continuing under the name Sony Corporation.
In 2020, Sony held a 55% share of the global image sensor market, making it the largest image sensor manufacturer, the second largest camera manufacturer, a semiconductor sales leader, and the world's third-largest television manufacturer by sales.
Although Sony is not part of a traditional keiretsu, it has historical ties to the Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, dating back to the 1950s when it relied exclusively on Mitsui Bank for financing. Sony is publicly traded on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (a component of the Nikkei 225 and TOPIX Core30 indices) and also maintains American depositary receipts on the New York Stock Exchange, where it has been listed since 1961. As of 2021, it ranked 88th on the Fortune Global 500 and 57th on the 2023 Forbes Global 2000 list.

Title: List of assets owned by Sony
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_assets_owned_by_Sony
Summary: This is a list of assets owned by Japanese multinational conglomerate Sony Group Corporation.

Title: Behaviour Interactive
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behaviour_Interactive
Summary: Behaviour Interactive Inc. (sometimes shortened to "BHVR") is a Canadian video game developer and publisher based in Montreal. The studio is best known for the online asymmetric multiplayer survival horror game Dead by Daylight (2016).

Title: PlayStation Studios
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PlayStation_Studios
Summary: PlayStation Studios (formerly SCE Worldwide Studios and SIE Worldwide Studios) is a division of Sony Interactive Entertainment (SIE) that oversees the video game development at the studios owned by SIE. The division was established as SCE Worldwide Studios in September 2005 and rebranded as PlayStation Studios in 2020 to include the PlayStation brand.