The Technical University of Denmark (Danish: Danmarks Tekniske Universitet), often simply referred to as DTU, is a polytechnic university and school of engineering. It was founded in 1829 at the initiative of Hans Christian Ørsted as Denmark's first polytechnic, and it is today ranked among Europe's leading engineering institutions. It is located in the town Kongens Lyngby, 12 km (7.5 mi) north of central Copenhagen, Denmark.
Along with École Polytechnique in Paris, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Eindhoven University of Technology, Technical University of Munich and Technion – Israel Institute of Technology, DTU is a member of EuroTech Universities Alliance.


== History ==
DTU was founded in 1829 as the "College of Advanced Technology" (Danish: Den Polytekniske Læreanstalt). The Physicist Hans Christian Ørsted, at that time a professor at the University of Copenhagen, was one of the driving forces behind this initiative. He was inspired by the École Polytechnique in Paris, France which Ørsted had visited as a young scientist. The new institution was inaugurated on 5 November 1829 with Ørsted becoming its Principal, a position he held until his death in 1851.

The first home of the new college consisted of two buildings located in Studiestræde and St. Pederstræde in the center of Copenhagen. Although these buildings were expanded several times, they eventually became inadequate for the requirements of the college. In 1890 a new building complex was completed and inaugurated located in Sølvgade. The new buildings were designed by the architect Johan Daniel Herholdt.
In 1903, the College of Advanced Technology commenced the education of electrical engineers in addition to that of the construction engineers, the production engineers, and the mechanical engineers who already at that time were being educated at the college.
In the 1920s, space again became insufficient and in 1929 the foundation stone was laid for a new school at Østervold. Completion of this building was delayed by World War II and it was not completed before 1954.

From 1933, the institution was officially known as Danmarks tekniske Højskole (DtH), which commonly was translated into English, as the 'Technical University of Denmark'. On 1 April 1994, in connection with the joining of Danmarks Ingeniørakademi (DIA) and DTH, the Danish name was changed to Danmarks Tekniske Universitet, this done to include the word 'University' thus giving rise to the initials DTU by which the university is commonly known today. The formal name, Den Polytekniske Læreanstalt, Danmarks Tekniske Universitet, however, still includes the original name.
In 1960 a decision was made to move the College of Advanced Technology to new and larger facilities in Lyngby north of Copenhagen. They were inaugurated on 17 May 1974.
On 23 and 24 November 1967, the University Computing Center hosted the NATO Science Committee's Study Group first meeting discussing the newly coined term "Software Engineering".
On 1 January 2007, the university was merged with the following Danish research centers: Forskningscenter Risø, Danmarks Fødevareforskning, Danmarks Fiskeriundersøgelser (from 1 January 2008: National Institute for Aquatic Resources; DTU Aqua), Danmarks Rumcenter, and Danmarks Transport-Forskning.


== Organization and administration ==
The university is governed by a board consisting of 10 members: six members are recruited from outside the university and they form the majority of the board. One member is appointed by the scientific staff and one member is appointed by the administrative staff. Two members are appointed by the university students.
The President of DTU is appointed by the university board. The President in turn appoints the Deans, and the Deans appoint the Heads of the departments.
In 2014, DTU was granted institutional accreditation by the Danish Accreditation Institution (a member of ENQA). The institutional accreditation ensures that the quality assurance system of the institution is well-described, well-argued, and well-functioning in practice.
Since DTU has no faculty senate, and since the faculty is not involved in the appointment of the President, Deans, or Department heads, the university has no faculty governance.


== Departments and centres ==


=== DTU Engineering Technology ===

DTU Engineering Technology is the university's graduate engineering department (Danish: Center for Diplomingeniøruddannelse). Its facilities are located in Ballerup across 42.000 m2 (50.232 sq yd) of space designed by PLH Architects.
The institution was first established in 1881, as an independent university college known as Copenhagen University College of Engineering (Danish: Ingeniørhøjskolen i København). The University College of Engineering merged with DTU in 2013, at which point it became the school's graduate engineering department.


=== DTU Space ===
The National Space Institute at the Technical University of Denmark, also known as DTU Space (Danish: Institut for Rumforskning og Rumteknologi), is a Danish sector research institute within DTU. The institute conducts research in astrophysics, Solar System physics, geodesy, and space technology in collaboration with the Niels Bohr Institute for Astronomy, Geophysics and Physics. The institute currently leads Swarm, a project to investigate the properties of the Earth's magnetic field.
The institute was first established in 2005 as the Danish National Space Center through the merger of the Danish Space Research Institute and the geodesy part of the National Survey and Cadastre of Denmark. In 2008, the National Space Center was integrated into DTU, becoming DTU Space. It has a staff of 169, including researchers, engineers, and technicians.


== Research centers ==


=== Center for Electron Nanoscopy ===

The Center for Electron Nanoscopy (Danish: Center for Elektronnanoskopi, CEN) is a center for electron microscopy within the university. Inaugurated in December 2007, the institute was fu