Title: Luxury car
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luxury_car
Summary: A luxury car is a passenger automobile providing superior comfort levels, features, and equipment. More expensive materials and surface finishes are used, and buyers expect a correspondingly high build quality.
The term is relative and unavoidably subjective, reflecting both objective qualities of a car and the projected and perceived image of the vehicle's marque. Luxury brands rank above premium brands, though there is no clear distinction between the two.
Luxury cars span from sports cars to large saloons and sport utility vehicles. "Compact" luxury vehicles also fill a niche.

Title: Tesla, Inc.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tesla,_Inc.
Summary: Tesla, Inc. ( TEZ-lə or   TESS-lə) is an American multinational automotive and clean energy company. Headquartered in Austin, Texas, it designs, manufactures, and sells battery electric vehicles (BEVs), stationary battery energy storage devices from home to grid-scale, solar panels and solar shingles, and related products and services.
The company was incorporated in July 2003 by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning as Tesla Motors. Its name is a tribute to the inventor and electrical engineer Nikola Tesla. In February 2004, Elon Musk led Tesla's first funding round and became the company's chairman, subsequently claiming to be a co-founder; in 2008, he was named chief executive officer. The company began production of its first car model, the Roadster sports car, in 2008; the Model S sedan in 2012; the Model X SUV in 2015; the Model 3 sedan in 2017; the Model Y crossover in 2020; the Tesla Semi truck in 2022; and the Cybertruck pickup truck in 2023.
Tesla is one of the world's most valuable companies in terms of market capitalization. Starting in July 2020, it has been the world's most valuable automaker. From October 2021 to March 2022, Tesla was a US$1 trillion company, the sixth US company to reach that valuation. In 2023, the company was ranked 69th in the Forbes Global 2000. In 2024, the company led the battery electric vehicle market, with 17.6% share.
Tesla exceeded $1 trillion in market capitalization again between November 2024 and February 2025, and from May 2025 to July 2026. In November 2025, Tesla approved a pay package worth $1 trillion for Musk, which he is to receive over 10 years if he meets specific goals. By the end of 2025, the company lost its status as world's leading manufacturer of electric vehicles.
Tesla has been the subject of lawsuits, boycotts, government scrutiny, and journalistic criticism, stemming from allegations of multiple cases of whistleblower retaliation, worker rights violations such as sexual harassment and anti-union activities, safety defects leading to dozens of recalls, the lack of a public relations department, and controversial statements from Musk, including overpromising on the company's driving assist technology and product release timelines.

Title: Hongqi Guoli
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hongqi_Guoli
Summary: The Hongqi Guoli (Chinese: 红旗国礼), formerly and also known as the Hongqi L5, is a large neo-retro full-size luxury sedan produced by Chinese automobile manufacturer Hongqi, a subsidiary of FAW Group since 2014, whose design was inspired by the discontinued Hongqi CA770. The Guoli serves as Hongqi's current flagship vehicle for the Chinese automotive market.

Title: Lamborghini Veneno
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lamborghini_Veneno
Summary: The Lamborghini Veneno (Spanish pronunciation: [beˈneno], lit. 'poison') is a limited production high performance sports car  manufactured by Italian automobile manufacturer Lamborghini. Based on the Aventador, the Veneno was developed to celebrate Lamborghini's 50th anniversary. It was introduced at the 2013 Geneva Motor Show. When introduced, it had a price of US$4,000,000, making it one of the most expensive production cars in the world.

Title: List of most valuable celebrity memorabilia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_valuable_celebrity_memorabilia
Summary: The following is a list of most valuable celebrity memorabilia (or most expensive celebrity items auctioned), consisting of individual items sold with an auction price of US$2 million or more and events with total sales of US$20 million or more. Some figures may or may not include buyer's premium, causing some reports to vary by media.
It includes personal belongings of public figures such as music artists, actors, athletes, models and socialites, and encompassess any collectible items sold at auction, from jewelry, musical instruments to manuscripts, cars and costumes worn in events or projects. The list excludes film props such as Robby the Robot and Batmobile, sports cards, auctioned musical instruments by manufacturers, or expensive things bought by, and, collectibles purchases made by a celebrity.
As of 2025, the Ruby slippers worn by Judy Garland in The Wizard of Oz as Dorothy Gale remain the most expensive item of entertainment memorabilia ever sold, as well as the most expensive film memorabilia, at over $28 million. Babe Ruth's jersey for the 1932 World Series fetched $24.1 million in 2024, becoming the most valued sports collectible item.