Title: List of most expensive paintings
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_expensive_paintings
Summary: This is a list of the highest known prices paid for paintings. The record payment for a work is approximately US$450.3 million (which includes commission) for the work Salvator Mundi (c. 1500) generally considered to be by Leonardo da Vinci, though this is disputed. The painting was sold in November 2017, through the auction house Christie's in New York City.

Title: List of most expensive films
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_expensive_films
Summary: It is not clear which film is the most expensive ever made, due to the secretive nature of Hollywood accounting. Star Wars: The Force Awakens holds the official record with a net budget of $536 million. The production of the third and fourth Avengers films—Infinity War and Endgame—stands as the most expensive back-to-back film production, with a cost of over $1 billion.
Inflation, filming techniques, and external market forces affect the cost of film production. Costs rose steadily during the silent era; 1925's Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ set a record that lasted well into the sound era. Television had an impact on rising costs in the 1950s and early 1960s as cinema competed with it for audiences; 1963's highest-earning film, Cleopatra, did not recoup its costs on its original release. The 1990s saw two thresholds crossed: 1994's True Lies cost $100 million and 1997's Titanic cost $200 million, both directed by James Cameron. The 21st century has so far seen the $300 million and $400 million thresholds crossed and it has become normal for a tent-pole feature from a major film studio to cost over $200 million, and an increasing number of films now cost more than $300 million.
This list contains only films already released to the general public and not films that are still in production or post-production, as costs can change during the production process. Listed below is the net negative cost: the costs of the actual filming, not including promotional costs (i.e. advertisements, commercials, posters, etc.) and after accounting for tax subsidies. The charts are ordered by budgets that have been independently audited or officially acknowledged by the production companies where they are known; most companies will not give a statement on the actual production costs, so often only estimates by professional researchers and movie industry writers are available. Where budget estimates conflict, the productions are charted by lower-bound estimates.

Title: List of most expensive cars sold at auction
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_expensive_cars_sold_at_auction
Summary: This is a list of the most expensive cars sold in public auto auctions through the traditional bidding process.  The record is held by a 1955 Mercedes-Benz 300 SLR Uhlenhaut coupe sold in 2022 for €135 million to a private collector.
This list only consists of those sold for at least $4 million in auction sales during a traditional bidding process, inclusive of the mandatory buyers premium and does not include private, unsuccessful (failing to reach its reserve price, incomplete) and out-of-auction sales.

Title: List of most expensive television series
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_expensive_television_series
Summary: This is a list of most expensive television series.

Title: List of most expensive women's association football transfers
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_expensive_women%27s_association_football_transfers
Summary: The following is a list of the most expensive women's association football transfers, which details the highest transfer fees ever paid for players, as well as transfers which set new world transfer records.
The first transfer in women's football reported as a record was that of Milene Domingues from Fiammamonza to Rayo Vallecano in 2002, two decades before professionalism in Spanish women's football. The current transfer record was set by the transfer of Grace Geyoro from Paris Saint-Germain to London City Lionesses for £1.43 million in September 2025 as they began their first season in the English top-flight Women's Super League.
The most expensive transfer to a team not in the top tier is the €300,000 potential total fee for the transfer of Julia Torres from Sevilla to Barcelona B set in March 2026; also the highest transfer fee between two Spanish teams at the time it was agreed, the total fee includes bonuses contingent on Torres ultimately playing for Barcelona's first team. The only known transfer fee for a player not in the top two flights was paid for Weronika Araśniewicz of Barcelona C when VfL Wolfsburg exercised their purchase option in July 2026, though Araśniewicz was signed to join their first team in the top tier.
In 2020, the Spanish then-Primera División introduced its Compensation List, a means for signatory clubs to retain the rights of under-23 players whose contracts had expired until another Spanish club paid a fee set by the owning club. Intended to compensate the costs of youth development, the fees were instead set disproportionately high for the global and internal market (all requests would have been records); unable to find new clubs in Spain, the players named on the Compensation List either stayed at clubs that did not wish to play them or moved abroad, with the list scrapped by the end of the year without having facilitated a transfer.
Later that year, the USA's National Women's Soccer League introduced allocation money, giving its constituent clubs options to make fee-involved trades and exchange the allocation money credits for the NWSL to purchase players from other leagues. The NWSL began phasing out allocation money in 2024, with an aim to stop its use by 2026, as part of its measures to shift to a more international transfer system and in recognition of other leagues financially outpacing it.