Title: Time Person of the Year
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_Person_of_the_Year
Summary: Person of the Year, called Man of the Year or Woman of the Year until 1999, is an annual issue of the American news magazine and website Time featuring a person, group, idea, or object that "for better or for worse ... has done the most to influence the events of the year". The Time website or a partner organization also runs an annual online reader's poll that has no effect on the selection, although no poll was held in 2023 or 2024.

Title: Breakthrough T1D
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breakthrough_T1D
Summary: Breakthrough T1D (formerly JDRF) is a type 1 diabetes (T1D) research and advocacy organization.
Breakthrough T1D funds research for the development of new therapies and treatments for type 1 diabetes. The organization advocates for federal research funding toward new technologies and treatments and works with regulatory and policy officials to disburse funds. Breakthrough T1D also has partnerships with academia, industry, and clinicians to accelerate research into potential cures for T1D.
The organization has been described as "the leading global organization funding T1D research".

Title: Demis Hassabis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demis_Hassabis
Summary: Sir Demis Hassabis (born 27 July 1976) is a British artificial intelligence (AI) researcher and entrepreneur. He is the chairman and co-founder of Google DeepMind and the chief scientist of Alphabet, as well as the chief executive officer and co-founder of Isomorphic Labs. Hassabis is also a UK Government AI Adviser. In 2024, Hassabis and John M. Jumper were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their AI research contributions to protein structure prediction.
Hassabis is a Fellow of the Royal Society and has won awards for his research efforts, including the Breakthrough Prize, the Canada Gairdner International Award and the Lasker Award. He was appointed a CBE in 2017, and knighted in 2024 for his work on AI. He was also listed among the Time 100 most influential people in the world in 2017 and 2025, and was one of the "Architects of AI" collectively chosen as Time's 2025 Person of the Year.

Title: Anne Wojcicki
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anne_Wojcicki
Summary: Anne E. Wojcicki ( woo-CHITS-kee; born July 28, 1973) is an American entrepreneur who co-founded the personal genomics company 23andMe.

Title: John C. Martin (businessman)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_C._Martin_(businessman)
Summary: John Charles Martin (May 7, 1951 – March 30, 2021) was an American billionaire businessman, and the former executive chairman (2016–2018) and  CEO (1996–2016) of the American biotechnology company Gilead Sciences. He joined Gilead Sciences in 1990 as vice president for research and development. Gilead is known for developing drugs such as Atripla (for HIV/AIDS) and commercializing Sovaldi (sofosbuvir) for the treatment of the liver virus hepatitis C. Martin is the recipient of a number of awards, including the Biotechnology Heritage Award (2017).