Title: Wild Bill Hickok
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wild_Bill_Hickok
Summary: James Butler Hickok (May 27, 1837 – August 2, 1876), better known as "Wild Bill" Hickok, was a folk hero of the American Old West known for his life on the frontier as a soldier, scout, lawman, cattle rustler, gunslinger, gambler, showman, and actor, and for his involvement in many famous gunfights. He earned a great deal of fame in his own time, much of it bolstered by the many outlandish and often fabricated tales told and printed about him, occasionally by himself. Some contemporaneous reports of his exploits are known to be fictitious, but they remain the basis of much of his fame and reputation.
Hickok was born and raised on a farm in Northern Illinois at a time when lawlessness and vigilante activity were rampant because of the influence of the "Banditti of the Prairie". Drawn to this criminal lifestyle, he headed west at age 18 as a fugitive from justice, working as a stagecoach driver and later as a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska. He served in and spied for the Union army during the American Civil War and gained publicity after the war as a scout, marksman, actor, and professional gambler. He was involved in several notable shootouts during the course of his life.
In 1876, Hickok was shot and killed while playing poker in a saloon in Deadwood, Dakota Territory (present-day South Dakota) by Jack McCall, an unsuccessful gambler. The hand of cards that he supposedly held at the time of his death has become known as the dead man's hand: two pairs, black aces and eights, and another unknown card, therefore having five cards in his hand at his death.
Hickok remains a popular figure of frontier history. Many historic sites and monuments commemorate his life, and he has been depicted numerous times in literature, film, and television. He is chiefly portrayed as a protagonist, although historical accounts of his actions are often controversial, and much of his career is known to have been exaggerated both by himself and by contemporary mythmakers. Hickok claimed to have shot numerous gunmen in his lifetime, and he killed six or seven, all between 1861 and 1871 according to Joseph G. Rosa, Hickok's biographer and the foremost authority on him.

Title: Shawinigan Handshake
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shawinigan_Handshake
Summary: Shawinigan Handshake is the epithet given to a chokehold executed on February 15, 1996, by Jean Chrétien, then-Prime Minister of Canada, on anti-poverty protester Bill Clennett. The phrase comes from Chrétien's birthplace of Shawinigan, Quebec, as he often styled himself the "little guy from Shawinigan".

Title: John Trumbull Birthplace
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Trumbull_Birthplace
Summary: The John Trumbull Birthplace, also known as the Governor Jonathan Trumbull House, is a historic house museum on the Lebanon Green in Lebanon, Connecticut, built in 1735 by Joseph Trumbull as a wedding present for his son Jonathan (1710–1785). The house was a center of political and military strategy during the American Revolutionary War, when Jonathan Trumbull was Governor of Connecticut.  It was also the birthplace of John Trumbull (1756–1843), an artist known for his depictions of the war and its people.  The house was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1965.

Title: Wild Bill Hickok Memorial
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wild_Bill_Hickok_Memorial
Summary: Wild Bill Hickok Memorial is a state historic site operated by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency. It is located in a small park at the intersection of Main and Ottawa Streets in Troy Grove, Illinois. The memorial marks the site of the birthplace of "Wild Bill" Hickok and features a plaque on the granite monument that honors Hickok's services as a scout and spy in the western states during the American Civil War, and as a frontier express messenger. The monument was dedicated on August 29, 1930.

Title: List of Alan Cumming performances
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Alan_Cumming_performances
Summary: This is the filmography list for the Scottish actor, writer and presenter Alan Cumming.