Title: Josep Tarradellas Barcelona–El Prat Airport
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josep_Tarradellas_Barcelona%E2%80%93El_Prat_Airport
Summary: Josep Tarradellas Barcelona–El Prat Airport (IATA: BCN, ICAO: LEBL) (Catalan: Aeroport Josep Tarradellas Barcelona-El Prat, Spanish: Aeropuerto Josep Tarradellas Barcelona-El Prat), also known as Barcelona-El Prat Airport, is an international airport located 15 km (9.3 mi) southwest of the centre of Barcelona, lying in the municipalities of El Prat de Llobregat, Viladecans, and Sant Boi, in Catalonia, Spain.
It is the second-largest and second-busiest airport in Spain, the busiest international airport of Catalonia (greatly surpassing Girona, Reus and Lleida), and the seventh busiest in Europe. In 2025, Barcelona Airport handled a record 57,483,036 passengers, up 4.4% from 2024. It is a hub for Level and Vueling, and a focus city for Air Europa, Iberia, EasyJet and Ryanair.
The Barcelona–Madrid air shuttle service, known as "Pont Aeri" (in Catalan) or "Puente Aéreo" (in Spanish), literally "Air Bridge", was the world's busiest route until 2008, with the highest number of flight operations (971 per week) in 2007. The schedule has been reduced since February 2008, when a Madrid–Barcelona high-speed rail line was opened, covering the distance in 2 hours 30 minutes, and quickly became popular.
The airport was renamed by the central Government of Spain to its current name on 21 December 2018 in honour of the first Catalan president under the current Spanish Constitution, Josep Tarradellas – a move widely criticised by the Generalitat de Catalunya and separatists due to non-consultation.

Title: Tourism in Spain
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tourism_in_Spain
Summary: Tourism in Spain is a major component of the national economy. In 2024, domestic and international tourism combined accounted for 12.6% of Spain’s GDP (200,699 million euros). The characteristic tourism branches generated more than 2.7 million jobs, representing 12.3% of total employment. The international tourist expenditure in 2024 was around 126 billion euros. Since 1959, the tourism industry has become one of the key sectors of the Spanish economy. The country has been a popular destination for summer holidays, especially with large numbers of tourists from the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Germany, Italy, the Benelux, and the United States, among others. Accordingly, Spain's foreign tourist industry has grown into the second-biggest in the world.

In 2025, Spain was the second most visited country in the world, recording around 97 million international tourists, which marked the eighth consecutive year of record-breaking numbers. 
Due to the coronavirus pandemic in 2020, only 18.9 million tourists visited Spain. These dramatic figures were devastating for the tourism sector and were a reflection of what would become the worst year for this industry, in terms of income, ever recorded. However, by 2022 the industry had mostly recovered, with 71,659,281 international tourists and increasing.
Spain ranks first among 140 countries in the biannual Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index published by the World Economic Forum in 2019, matching the top position already achieved in 2017 and 2015. The World Tourism Organization has its headquarters in Madrid.

Title: Málaga
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M%C3%A1laga
Summary: Málaga ( ; Spanish: [ˈmalaɣa] ) is a municipality of Spain and the capital of the province of Málaga, in the autonomous community of Andalusia. With a population of 592,346 in 2024, it is the 2nd-largest city in Andalusia and the 6th-largest in the country. It lies in Southern Iberia on the Costa del Sol ('Coast of the Sun') of the Mediterranean, primarily on the left bank of the Guadalhorce. The urban core originally developed in the space between the Gibralfaro Hill and the Guadalmedina.
Málaga's history spans about 2,800 years, making it one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in Western Europe. According to most scholars, it was founded about 770 BC by the Phoenicians from Tyre as Malaka. From the 6th century BC the city was under the hegemony of Ancient Carthage, and from 218 BC, it was under Roman rule, economically prospering owing to garum production. In the 8th century, after a period of Visigothic and Byzantine rule, it was placed under Islamic rule. In 1487, the Crown of Castile gained control in the midst of the Granada War. In the 19th century, the city underwent a period of industrialisation followed by a decay in all socioeconomic parameters in the last third of the century.
The most important business sectors in Málaga are tourism, construction and technology services, but other sectors such as transportation and logistics are beginning to expand. Málaga has consolidated as a tech hub, with companies mainly concentrated in the Málaga TechPark (Technology Park of Andalusia). It hosts the headquarters of the region's largest bank, Unicaja, and it is the fourth-ranking city in Spain in terms of economic activity. Regarding transportation, Málaga is served by the Málaga–Costa del Sol Airport and the Port of Málaga, and the city was connected to the high-speed railway network in 2007.

Title: Barcelona Metro
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barcelona_Metro
Summary: The Barcelona Metro (Catalan and Spanish: Metro de Barcelona) is a rapid transit network that runs mostly underground in central Barcelona and into the city's suburbs. It is part of the larger public transport system of Barcelona, the capital of Catalonia, Spain, with unified fares under the Autoritat del Transport Metropolità (ATM) scheme. As of 2024, the network is operated by two separate companies: Transports Metropolitans de Barcelona (TMB) and Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya (FGC). It is made up of 12 lines, combining the lines owned by the two companies. Two lines, L9 and L10, are being built at present, with both lines having different sections of each opened between 2009 and 2021. They are due to be fully completed in 2030. Three lines on the network have opened as automatic train operation/driverless vehicle systems since 2009: Line 11 was converted to driverless first, and Lines 9 and 10 have been driverless since they opened. 
Barcelona has one of only two metros worldwide to operate on three different track gauges, being 1,000 mm (3 ft 3+3⁄8 in) metre gauge on line 8, 1,672 mm (5 ft 5+13⁄16 in) older Iberian gauge on line 1, and 1,435 mm (4 ft 8+1⁄2 in) standard gauge on the remaining lines; the other metro with three gauges being the Toei Subway in Tokyo, which uses two narrow gauges and standard gauge. It is the only metro worldwide to operate on both narrow and broad gauge tracks.
The network length is 170 kilometres (106 mi), with 183 stations, as of November 2021. It uses spare power from its regenerative braking to power charging stations in the vicinity of its infrastructure.

Title: 2024–2025 anti-tourism protests in Spain
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024%E2%80%932025_anti-tourism_protests_in_Spain
Summary: Beginning in April 2024, there have been protests in Spain against overtourism, specifically in the archipelagos of the Balearics and Canaries, and in the mainland cities of Barcelona, San Sebastián and Málaga. These first three locations are the top three most-visited in Spain by tourists. Following the COVID-19 pandemic limiting tourists' opportunities to travel, the numbers of visitors to Spanish destinations has significantly increased year-on-year. Local governments and residents believe that, rather than sustaining the locations, the overtourism has contributed to a reduced quality of life and increased cost of living for residents.
The BBC reported that while overtourism has concerned residents of the most-visited locations for a while, "[in 2024] it feels like something has changed. The anger among many locals is reaching a new level".