Team conventions. Standard library only unless the ticket says otherwise; every delivered function carries a docstring stating its contract; return early on invalid input instead of nesting; never mutate an argument the caller still owns — copy before modifying; prefer explicit loops over clever one-liners when they read better.

Snippet, clamping a value. def clamp(v, lo, hi): return max(lo, min(v, hi)) — bounds a value into a closed range; useful whenever an index or measurement must stay inside limits.

Snippet, fixed-size chunking. def chunks(xs, n): return [xs[i:i+n] for i in range(0, len(xs), n)] — splits a list into consecutive pieces of size n, last piece possibly shorter.

Pattern, two-pointer merge. To combine two individually sorted sequences into one sorted result without re-sorting: keep one index per sequence, repeatedly append the smaller current element and advance its index, then extend with whichever tail remains. Runs in linear time and never calls sort.

Pattern, stack-based bracket matching. To validate nested delimiters: push every opener on a stack; on a closer, the stack must be non-empty and its top must be the matching opener, which is popped; ignore all other characters; the input is valid only if the stack is empty at the end. A dict mapping closers to openers keeps the pairing in one place.

Pattern, counting with a dictionary. To count occurrences: iterate the items and do counts[key] = counts.get(key, 0) + 1, or use collections.Counter when the standard library is allowed; normalize case and strip punctuation BEFORE counting when the ticket asks for word frequencies.

Pattern, distinct extremes. To find a second-largest distinct value: reduce to the set of distinct values first; if fewer than two remain, the answer does not exist — return the sentinel the contract names (commonly None); otherwise remove or skip the maximum and take the maximum of the rest. Sorting the distinct values is acceptable for small inputs.

Pattern, run-length encoding. Walk the string keeping the current character and a counter; when the character changes, emit the finished group as character plus count and reset the counter; remember to emit the final group after the loop ends — forgetting the trailing group is the classic defect. Empty input encodes to an empty result.

Review checklist. Verify behavior on empty input, on a single element, and on inputs where all elements are equal; verify no argument is mutated; verify every edge case the specification lists has a code path you can point to; verify the return type matches the contract in every branch, including error branches.

Common pitfalls. Off-by-one at range ends when slicing or windowing; using a list index after the loop variable moved past it; comparing floats for equality where the contract implies tolerance; building a result by string concatenation in a loop where a list join is clearer and faster; forgetting that dict iteration order follows insertion.

Testing guidance. Express each specified edge case as one assert with the literal expected value, run the asserts mentally against the code line by line before sign-off, and treat any assert you cannot trace through the code as NEEDS_REVIEW, not READY.
