Title: Peter Fonda
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Fonda
Excerpt: Peter Henry Fonda (February 23, 1940 – August 16, 2019) was an American actor, film director, and screenwriter. He was twice an Academy Award nominee, both for acting and screenwriting, and a two-time Golden Globe Award winner for his acting. He was a member of the Fonda acting family, as the son of actor Henry Fonda, the brother of actress and activist Jane Fonda, and the father of actress Bridget Fonda.
Fonda began his career on stage, winning a New York Drama Critics' Circle Award and the Theatre World Award for his performance in the play Blood, Sweat and Stanley Poole. He became a prominent figure in the counterculture of the 1960s, starring in and co-writing the film  Easy Rider (1969), which earned him an Oscar nomination for Best Original Screenplay. He then made his directorial debut with the Revisionist Western film The Hired Hand (1971), in which he also starred. During the following decade, he established himself as an action star, appearing in a variety of productions including Dirty Mary, Crazy Larry (1974) and Futureworld (1976).
Fonda achieved a major critical comeback with his starring role in the drama film Ulee's Gold (1997), receiving an Oscar nomination for Best Actor and a  Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama. He also won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actor – Series, Miniseries or Television Film for The Passion of Ayn Rand (1999). In 2003, Fonda received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 7018 Hollywood Blvd, for his contributions to the film industry.

Title: Regina Hall
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regina_Hall
Excerpt: Regina Lee Hall (born December 12, 1970) is an American actress. She gained prominence for her portrayal of Brenda Meeks in the comedy-horror Scary Movie film series and has since built a versatile career spanning comedy and drama in both film and television. In 2018, Hall became the first African-American to win the New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Actress for her performance in the film Support the Girls.
Hall made her film debut in The Best Man (1999) and reprised her role in its sequel The Best Man Holiday (2014). Her notable film credits include Love & Basketball (2000), Think Like a Man (2012) and its sequel Think Like a Man Too (2014), Girls Trip (2017), The Hate U Give (2018), and One Battle After Another (2025). On television, she has starred in the comedy-drama series Ally McBeal (2001–2002), NBC police procedural Law & Order: LA (2010–2011), the comedy series Black Monday (2019–2021), and appeared as Ninny in Issa Rae's Insecure (2017).
In 2022, she co-hosted the 94th Academy Awards alongside Amy Schumer and Wanda Sykes.

Title: List of American films of 2025
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_American_films_of_2025
Excerpt: This is a list of American films released in 2025.
Following the box office section, this list is organized chronologically, providing information on release dates, production companies, directors, and principal cast members.

Title: 66th Annual Grammy Awards
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/66th_Annual_Grammy_Awards
Excerpt: The 66th Annual Grammy Awards honored the best recordings, compositions, and artists from October 1, 2022, to September 15, 2023, as chosen by the members of The Recording Academy, on February 4, 2024. In its 21st year at the Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, the ceremony was broadcast on CBS and available to stream on Paramount+, and was hosted by Trevor Noah for the fourth time.
The nominations were announced on November 10, 2023; SZA received the most nominations with nine, followed by Victoria Monét, Phoebe Bridgers (solo and as part of boygenius), and Serban Ghenea with seven each. Monét's 2-year-old daughter, Hazel, became the youngest nominee in Grammy Awards history; she was a featured artist on her mother's song "Hollywood", which was nominated for Best Traditional R&B Performance. 
Bridgers was the night's biggest winner, receiving four awards: Three as part of Boygenius (Best Rock Song, Best Rock Performance, and Best Alternative Music Album) and Best Pop Duo/Group Performance alongside SZA. SZA, Monét, and Killer Mike received three awards each. Taylor Swift made history as the first singer to win Album of the Year four times, and Swift announced the release of her album The Tortured Poets Department while accepting the award for Best Pop Vocal Album. Engineer Serban Ghenea extended his record with a fifth award in the category as well. South African singer Tyla was the winner of the inaugural Best African Performance award. Paramore became the first female-fronted rock band to win the Grammy Award for Best Rock Album.
In the big four categories, Swift's Midnights won the aforementioned Album of the Year prize; Miley Cyrus's "Flowers" won Record of the Year; Billie Eilish and her brother Finneas won Song of the Year for "What Was I Made For?" (from the soundtrack of Barbie); and Victoria Monét took home Best New Artist.

Title: List of American films of 2026
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_American_films_of_2026
Excerpt: This is a list of American films that are scheduled for release in 2026.
Following the box office section, this list is organized chronologically, providing information on release dates, production companies, directors, and principal cast members.