Title: Wendigo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wendigo
Excerpt: Wendigo () is a mythological creature or evil spirit originating from Algonquian folklore. The concept of the wendigo has been widely used in literature and other works of art, such as social commentary and horror fiction.
The wendigo is often said to be a malevolent spirit, sometimes depicted as a creature with human-like characteristics, who may possess human beings. It is said to cause its victims a feeling of insatiable hunger, the desire to eat other humans, and the propensity to commit murder. In some representations, the wendigo is described as a giant humanoid with a heart of ice, whose approach is signaled by a foul stench or sudden unseasonable chill.
In modern psychiatry, the disorder known as "Wendigo psychosis" is characterized by symptoms such as an intense craving for human flesh and fear of becoming a cannibal. Wendigo psychosis is described as a culture-bound syndrome. In some First Nations communities, symptoms such as insatiable greed and destruction of the environment are also thought to be symptoms of wendigo psychosis.
The wechuge is a similar being that appears in the legends of the Athabaskan people of the Northwest Pacific Coast. It too is cannibalistic; however, it is characterized as enlightened with ancestral insights.

Title: The Dunwich Horror
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dunwich_Horror
Excerpt: "The Dunwich Horror" is a cosmic horror short story by American writer H. P. Lovecraft. Written in 1928, it was first published in the April 1929 issue of Weird Tales (pp. 481–508). It takes place in Dunwich, a fictional town in Massachusetts. It is considered one of the core stories of the Cthulhu Mythos.

Title: Ghostkeeper
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ghostkeeper
Excerpt: Ghostkeeper is a 1981 Canadian supernatural slasher film directed by James Makichuk, and starring Riva Spier, Georgie Collins, and Murray Ord. Its plot centers on a trio of snowmobilers in the Canadian Rockies who become stranded at an abandoned hotel where the elderly female innkeeper is hiding an evil entity within the building. The film is inspired by the Windigo legend of North America.
Filmed in Banff, Alberta under a tax shelter in December 1980, the film had an unstable financial situation and the filmmakers nearly halted the production mid-way through due to depletion of its budget. The film was given a brief theatrical release in Canada and was released directly to video in the United States by New World Pictures. It has attained a cult following in the years since its release.
The independent cult label Code Red Releasing later acquired the film, and released on DVD for the first time in April 2012. In August 2017, they reissued the film on Blu-ray featuring a new 2K scan of the original film elements.

Title: Until Dawn (film)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Until_Dawn_(film)
Excerpt: Until Dawn is a 2025 American survival horror film adapted from the 2015 video game by PlayStation Studios, and it is set in the same universe while featuring an original standalone story that expands upon the game's mythology. The film take place between the events of the games in the series, The Inpatient (2018) and the 2015 video game. Directed by David F. Sandberg, and written by Gary Dauberman and Blair Butler. It stars Ella Rubin, Michael Cimino, Odessa A'zion, Ji-young Yoo, and Belmont Cameli as a group of friends who end up in a secluded area embedded with a time loop mechanic; a threat is out to hunt them where dying restarts the night with a new threat each time, and the only solution is to survive until morning. Peter Stormare also stars, reprising his role from the game.
In January 2024, Sony Pictures announced the film's development with Screen Gems and PlayStation Productions set to produce. Casting announcements were made throughout 2024 and principal photography took place between August and October 2024 in Budapest. The crew features frequent collaborators of Sandberg, including composer Benjamin Wallfisch, cinematographer Maxime Alexandre, and editor Michel Aller.
Until Dawn was released in the United States by Sony Pictures Releasing on April 25, 2025. The film received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $54 million worldwide.

Title: List of analog horror media
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_analog_horror_media
Excerpt: Analog horror is a subgenre of horror fiction based around the aesthetic incorporation of elements related to analog electronics, such as analog television and VHS video recorders. It is typically characterized by low-fidelity graphics, cryptic messages, little to no traditional jump scares, and visual styles reminiscent of late 20th-century television and analog recordings.
This is a sortable list of analog horror media.