Title: Insurance
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insurance
Excerpt: Insurance is a means of protection from financial loss in which, in exchange for a fee, a party agrees to compensate another party in the event of a certain loss, damage, or injury. It is a form of risk management, primarily used to protect against the risk of a contingent or uncertain loss.
An entity which provides insurance is known as an insurer, insurance company, insurance carrier, or underwriter. A person or entity who buys insurance is known as a policyholder, while a person or entity covered under the policy is called an insured. The insurance transaction involves the policyholder assuming a guaranteed, known, and relatively small loss in the form of a payment to the insurer (a premium) in exchange for the insurer's promise to compensate the insured in the event of a covered loss. The loss may or may not be financial, but it must always be reducible to financial terms. Furthermore, it usually involves something in which the insured has an insurable interest established by ownership, possession, or pre-existing relationship.
The insured receives a contract, called the insurance policy, which details the conditions and circumstances under which the insurer will compensate the insured, or their designated beneficiary or assignee. The amount of money charged by the insurer to the policyholder for the coverage set forth in the insurance policy is called the premium. If the insured experiences a loss which is potentially covered by the insurance policy, the insured submits a claim to the insurer for processing by a claims adjuster. A mandatory out-of-pocket expense required by an insurance policy before an insurer will pay a claim is called a deductible or excess (or if required by a health insurance policy, a copayment). The insurer may mitigate its own risk by taking out reinsurance, whereby another insurance company agrees to carry some of the risks, especially if the primary insurer deems the risk too large for it to carry.

Title: Universal life insurance
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_life_insurance
Excerpt: Universal life insurance (often shortened to UL) is a type of cash value life insurance, sold primarily in the United States. Under the terms of the policy, the excess of premium payments above the current cost of insurance is credited to the cash value of the policy, which is credited each month with interest. The policy is debited each month by a cost of insurance (COI) charge as well as any other policy charges and fees drawn from the cash value, even if no premium payment is made that month. Interest credited to the account is determined by the insurer but has a contractual minimum rate (often 2%). When an earnings rate is pegged to a financial index such as a stock, bond or other interest rate index, the policy is an "Indexed universal life" contract.

Title: Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nationwide_Mutual_Insurance_Company
Excerpt: Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and affiliated companies, commonly shortened to Nationwide, is a group of large U.S. insurance and financial services companies based in Columbus, Ohio. The company also operates regional headquarters in Scottsdale, Arizona and Des Moines, Iowa. Nationwide currently has approximately 24,000 employees, and is ranked 69th in the 2026 Fortune 500 list.
Nationwide Financial Services (NFS), a component of the group, was partially floated on the New York Stock Exchange prior to being repurchased by Nationwide Mutual in 2009. It had owned the majority of NFS common stock since it had gone public in 1997.

Title: Financial planner
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Financial_planner
Excerpt: A financial planner or personal financial planner is a qualified financial advisor. Practicing in full service personal finance, they advise clients on investments, insurance, tax, retirement and estate planning.
As a general rule, a financial planner’s work can:

integrate into the range of professional services (eg: lawyer, accountant); or
integrate into the offer of a range of financial products and services (eg: financial advisor, insurance agent); or
not be integrated into other products or services, providing stand alone financial planning.

Title: Financial adviser
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Financial_adviser
Excerpt: A financial adviser or financial advisor is a professional who provides financial services to clients based on their financial situation. In many countries, financial advisors must complete specific training and be registered with a regulatory body in order to provide advice.
Relationships between clients and financial advisors can be characterized by principal-agent problems, as financial advisors may possess information and conflicts of interest that lead to dishonest advice and misconduct.
Financial advisors provide a broad range of services that may include investment advice, retirement and estate planning, wealth management, tax‑efficient strategies, insurance solutions, and holistic financial guidance, depending on their licensing, credentials, and scope of practice.