Title: English claims to the French throne
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_claims_to_the_French_throne
Excerpt: From 1340, English monarchs, beginning with the Plantagenet king Edward III, asserted that they were the rightful kings of France. They fought the Hundred Years' War (1337–1453), in part, to enforce this claim, but ultimately without success. From the early 16th century, the claim had lost any realistic prospect of fulfilment, although every English and, later, British monarch, from Edward to George III, styled themselves king or queen of France until 1801.
Edward's claim was through his mother, Isabella, sister of the last direct line Capetian king of France, Charles IV. Women were excluded from inheriting the French crown and Edward was Charles's nearest male relative. On Charles's death in 1328, however, the French magnates supported Philip VI, the first king of the House of Valois, a cadet branch of the Capetian dynasty. Philip was Charles's nearest male line relative. French jurists later argued that it was a fundamental law of the kingdom that the crown could not be inherited through the female line. This was supposedly based on the 6th-century Frankish legal code known as the Salic law, although the link to the Salic law, which was tenuous in any case, was not made until the 15th century.
Edward spent much of his reign at war with the Valois kings but never secured the crown, although his main concern was to protect his French fief of Gascony. His great-grandson, Henry V, following his crushing victory at Agincourt, was able to impose the Treaty of Troyes on the French in 1420. This stipulated that he and his heirs would succeed the Valois king Charles VI on his death. Both kings died in 1422 and Henry's son, Henry VI, was crowned king of both countries, creating the so-called "dual monarchy". However, he was only recognised as king in northern France. French resistance to the dual monarchy resulted in the English being expelled from France by 1453, ending the Hundred Years' War, but leaving Calais as the last remaining English possession.
Later English invasions to win the French throne failed, the last being by Henry VIII in 1523. Calais was lost in 1558. England and France continued to fight wars but none was over the claim to the crown. The use of the title by English and, later, by British monarchs also continued but was ignored by the French, as the claim ceased to have any practical significance. However, following the French Revolution, the new republican government of France objected to the practice and the title was no longer used from 1801. The claim was finally abandoned the following year.

Title: Killing in the Name
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Killing_in_the_Name
Excerpt: "Killing in the Name" is a song by the American rock band Rage Against the Machine from their debut studio album, Rage Against the Machine (1992). The song was serviced to US radio on October 20, 1992, as the first single from the album. It features heavy drop-D guitar riffs.
"Killing in the Name" was released as the lead single from Rage Against the Machine in November 1992. It reached number 25 on the UK singles chart. In 2009, following a public campaign protesting the British talent show The X Factor, "Killing in the Name" became the UK Christmas number one.

Title: The Lord of the Rings: War in the North
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lord_of_the_Rings:_War_in_the_North
Excerpt: The Lord of the Rings: War in the North is a 2011 action role-playing game developed by Snowblind Studios and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Microsoft Windows. An OS X port was developed and published by Feral Interactive in 2013. It is the second video game based on both J. R. R. Tolkien's 1954 high fantasy novel The Lord of the Rings and Peter Jackson's film trilogy adaptation released in 2001 (The Fellowship of the Ring), 2002 (The Two Towers) and 2003 (The Return of the King), following the release of The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth II in 2006.  WB Games acquired the rights for both intellectual properties in 2009 - prior to this, Vivendi Universal Games, in partnership with Tolkien Enterprises, had held the rights to make games based on Tolkien's literary works, whilst Electronic Arts held the rights to make games based on the New Line Cinema films. 
The game contains narrative elements similar to both the novels and the films, although the aesthetic design is based more specifically upon the look of the latter, with characters in the game bearing the likenesses of their actors in those films. The game does not directly adapt the story depicted in the novel and films, but instead depicts a trio of adventurers whose quest runs parallel to the main narrative, occasionally intersecting with it. The story follows them as they attempt to track down and defeat a powerful Black Númenórean named Agandaûr, whom Sauron has employed to lay waste to the northern regions of Middle-earth, whilst Sauron himself concentrates on Rohan and Gondor.
The game received mixed reviews, with critics praising the graphics and tone, but criticizing the repetitive combat, weak storyline and poor character development. It was also criticized for containing several game-breaking bugs. War in the North was a commercial failure, which some attributed to the timing of its launch among other high-profile releases. The game was re-released for Nintendo Switch, Nintendo Switch 2, PlayStation 5, Windows and Xbox Series X/S in August 2026.

Title: What Is a Woman?
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/What_Is_a_Woman%3F
Excerpt: What Is a Woman? is a 2022 American documentary film about gender and transgender issues, directed by Justin Folk and presented by conservative political commentator Matt Walsh. It was released and distributed by conservative website The Daily Wire. In it, Walsh asks various people "What is a woman?" with the goal of showing them that their definition of womanhood is circular. Walsh said he made it in opposition to what he calls gender ideology. According to transgender activists and others who appeared in it, Walsh had invited individuals to participate under false pretenses.  It was released to subscribers of The Daily Wire on June 1, 2022, coinciding with the start of Pride Month.
What Is a Woman? received mixed reviews from critics, with Walsh's approach garnered praise from conservative commentators, while drawing criticism from other sources, including advocates of transgender healthcare. It is described in many sources as anti-trans, or transphobic, with some calling it a propaganda film. Fact checkers have shown that some of the claims in it are false. Walsh's tour to showcase What Is a Woman? at college campuses sparked protests. In June 2023, during the subsequent Pride Month, it gained further attention when Elon Musk promoted it on Twitter.

Title: List of people named in the Epstein files
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_people_named_in_the_Epstein_files
Excerpt: The Epstein files comprise over six million pages of documents detailing the activities of American financier and convicted child sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. So far about three and a half million files have been made public with redactions, among them 180,000 images and 2,000 videos.
This article lists people who cultivated relationships with Epstein, as evidenced in the released files and reported in reliable sources. Among others, they were professionals he hired; people who hired him; scholars he entertained and funded; powerful men and women; Silicon Valley elite, royalty, and political leaders who provided connections and companionship; people who wanted to stand close to the wealthy and connected; and lifelong friends.
The compilation of these names in this list neither establishes wrongdoing by those named nor should it be interpreted as evidence that the people listed are guilty of misconduct. Many people featured in the files deny any wrongdoing in relation to Epstein's life and crimes, and Ghislaine Maxwell remains the only person ever convicted of being a co-conspirator of Epstein.