Title: Flatiron Building
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flatiron_Building
Excerpt: The Flatiron Building (originally the Fuller Building) is a 22-story, 307-foot-tall (93.6 m) steel-framed triangular building at 175 Fifth Avenue in the Flatiron District neighborhood of Manhattan in New York City, New York, US. Designed by Daniel Burnham and Frederick P. Dinkelberg, it opened in 1902. The building sits on a triangular block formed by Fifth Avenue, Broadway, and East 22nd Street—where the building's 87-foot (27 m) back end is located—with East 23rd Street grazing the triangle's northern (uptown) peak. The name "Flatiron" derives from its triangular shape, which recalls that of a cast-iron clothes iron.
The Flatiron Building was developed as the headquarters of construction firm Fuller Company, which acquired the site from the Newhouse family in May 1901. Construction proceeded rapidly, and the building opened on October 1, 1902; it originally stood 285 feet (87 m) tall. In its early days, it was sometimes called "Burnham's Folly" because of locals' skepticism of the building's structural integrity. The building was originally 20 floors; a "cowcatcher" retail space (a low attached building named for its resemblance to the device on rail locomotives) and penthouse were added shortly after the building's opening. The Fuller Company sold the building in 1925 to an investment syndicate. The Equitable Life Assurance Society took over the building after a foreclosure auction in 1933 and sold it to another syndicate in 1945. 
Helmsley-Spear managed the building for much of the late 20th century, renovating it several times. The Newmark Group started managing the building in 1997. Ownership was divided among several companies, which started renovating the building again in 2019. Jacob Garlick agreed to acquire the Flatiron Building at an auction in early 2023, but failed to pay the required deposit, and three of the four existing ownership groups took over the building. In October 2023, the building's owners announced that it would be converted to residential condominiums; the project is planned to be complete by 2026.
The Flatiron Building's facade is divided vertically into three sections, similarly to the components of a classical column. The three-story base is clad with limestone, while the upper stories are clad with glazed terracotta. The building's steel frame, designed by structural engineering firm Purdy and Henderson, was intended to withstand four times the maximum wind force of the аrea. Called "one of the world's most iconic skyscrapers and a quintessential symbol of New York City", the building anchors the south (downtown) end of Madison Square and the north (uptown) end of the Ladies' Mile Historic District. The neighborhood around it is called the Flatiron District after its signature, iconic building. The building was designated a New York City landmark in 1966, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979, and was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1989.

Title: Campus Martius
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Campus_Martius
Excerpt: The Campus Martius (Latin for 'Field of Mars'; Italian: Campo Marzio) was a publicly owned area of ancient Rome about 2 square kilometres (490 acres) in extent. In the Middle Ages, it was the most populous area of Rome. The IV rione of Rome, Campo Marzio, which covers a smaller section of the original area, bears the same name.

Title: Cathedral of Saint Vibiana
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cathedral_of_Saint_Vibiana
Excerpt: The Cathedral of Saint Vibiana (Spanish: Catedral de Santa Vibiana), often called St. Vibiana's, is the former Catholic cathedral for the Archdiocese of Los Angeles. Located in Downtown Los Angeles, the building opened in 1876 as the cathedral for what was then known as the Diocese of Monterey–Los Angeles, and remained the official cathedral of the Los Angeles see for over 100 years.  It is named for Vibiana, a saint who lived in the 3rd century, and is currently a secular events venue.
The cathedral was heavily damaged during the 1994 Northridge earthquake and became the subject of a lengthy legal battle between the archdiocese, which wanted to demolish the building and build a new cathedral on the site, and preservationists, who wanted the building to remain standing due to its historical significance. In 1996, the parties involved reached a compromise in which the archdiocese would purchase a nearby site on which to build a new cathedral, and in turn would turn over the St. Vibiana site to the City of Los Angeles. The Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels was dedicated in 2002 as the successor to St. Vibiana's.
In the late 2000s, the former cathedral building became an event venue called Vibiana. The Little Tokyo branch of the Los Angeles Public Library is also located on the site. The 1876 cathedral structure is one of the last remaining buildings from the early period of Los Angeles history.

Title: Hall of Nations
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hall_of_Nations
Excerpt: The Hall of Nations was an iconic exhibition hall inaugurated in 1972 as part of the Pragati Maidan complex in New Delhi, India. It was built to commemorate 25 years of Indian independence.
Inaugurated by then-Prime Minister Indira Gandhi for the India International Trade Fair called Asia 72, it was the world’s first and, at the time, the largest-span space-frame structure built in reinforced concrete. The Hall of Nations comprised a group of four halls of varying sizes, interconnected by a system of ramps. They were designed by architect Raj Rewal, who was later bestowed with a gold medal by the Indian Institute of Architects in 1989.
In 2017, the Hall of Nations was demolished, along with Halls 1 through 6 and 14 through 20, state pavilions, and neighbouring landmarks such as the Hall of Industries and the Nehru Pavilion, to make way for a new exhibition and convention center. This new complex, named Bharat Mandapam, stands on the site of the former Hall of Nations. 
The demolition of the Hall of Nations ignited significant public outcry and criticism from conservationists and the general public alike. Celebrated for its architectural innovation and historical significance, the Hall of Nations held a unique place in India’s modern architectural heritage. Its demolition by the India Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO) occurred while legal proceedings were still underway to determine its heritage status.

Title: St Giles' Presbyterian Church, Geelong
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St_Giles%27_Presbyterian_Church,_Geelong
Excerpt: The St Giles' Presbyterian Church is a former Presbyterian church in Geelong, Victoria, Australia. The church, which opened in 1862, served the Presbyterian community up until 1977, when it was deemed redundant as a result of a dwindling congregation. 
The building was added to the Victorian Heritage Register on 7 July 1960 in recognition of its historical, architectural and social significance. After its closure as a church, the interior was subsequently transformed into various office spaces.