Title: Persephone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persephone
Excerpt: In ancient Greek mythology and religion, Persephone (  Ancient Greek: Περσεφόνη) is the daughter of Zeus and Demeter. She became the queen of the underworld after her abduction by her uncle Hades, the king of the underworld, who later took her into marriage. The myth of her abduction, her sojourn in the underworld, and her cyclical return to the surface represents her functions as the embodiment of spring and the personification of vegetation, especially grain crops, which disappear into the earth when sown, remain hidden for a period, sprout from the earth, and are harvested when fully grown.
In Classical Greek art, Persephone is invariably portrayed robed, often carrying a sheaf of grain. She may appear as a mystical divinity with a sceptre and a little box, but she was mostly represented in the process of being carried off by Hades.
Persephone, as a vegetation goddess, and her mother Demeter were the central figures of the Eleusinian Mysteries, which promised the initiated a happy afterlife. The origins of her cult are uncertain, but it was based on ancient agrarian cults of agricultural communities. In Athens, the mysteries celebrated in the month of Anthesterion were dedicated to her. She is a goddess of marriage and childbirth in the region of the city of Epizephyrian Locris, in modern Calabria (southern Italy).
In cult, she was often referred to as Kore (Ancient Greek: Κόρη, lit. 'the Girl') or Cora. The name "Persephone" has multiple historical variants, including Persephassa (Περσεφάσσα) and Persophatta (Περσόφαττα). In Latin, her name is rendered Proserpina. She was identified by the Romans as Libera, an Italic goddess who was conflated with Proserpina. Myths similar to Persephone's descent and return to earth also appear in the cults of male gods, including Attis, Adonis, and Osiris, and in Minoan Crete.

Title: Venus (mythology)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venus_(mythology)
Excerpt: Venus (; Classical Latin: [ˈwɛnʊs]) is a Roman goddess whose functions encompass love, beauty, desire, sex, fertility, prosperity, and victory. In Roman mythology, she was the ancestor of the Roman people through her son, Aeneas, who survived the fall of Troy and fled to Italy. Julius Caesar claimed her as his ancestor. Venus was central to many religious festivals, and was revered in Roman religion under numerous cult titles.
The Romans adapted the myths and iconography of her Greek counterpart Aphrodite for Roman art and Latin literature. In the later classical tradition of the West, Venus became one of the most widely referenced deities of Greco-Roman mythology as the embodiment of love and sexuality. As such, she is usually depicted nude.

Title: The White Goddess
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_White_Goddess
Excerpt: The White Goddess: a Historical Grammar of Poetic Myth is a book-length essay on the nature of poetic myth-making by the English writer Robert Graves. First published in 1948, it is based on earlier articles published in Wales magazine; corrected, revised and enlarged editions appeared in 1952 and 1961.
The White Goddess represents an approach to the study of mythology from a decidedly creative and idiosyncratic perspective. Graves proposes the existence of a European deity, the "White Goddess of Birth, Love and Death", much similar to the Mother Goddess, inspired and represented by the phases of the Moon, who lies behind the faces of the diverse goddesses of various European and pagan mythologies.
Graves argues that true or pure poetry is inextricably linked with the ancient cult-ritual of his proposed White Goddess and her son.

Title: Mother goddess
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mother_goddess
Excerpt: A mother goddess is a major goddess characterized as a mother or progenitor, either as an embodiment of motherhood and fertility or fulfilling the cosmological role of a creator- and/or destroyer-figure, typically associated with the Earth, sky, and/or the life-giving bounties thereof in a maternal relation with humanity or other gods. When equated in this lattermost function with the earth or the natural world, such goddesses are sometimes referred to as the Mother Earth or Earth Mother, deity in various animistic or pantheistic religions.  The earth goddess is archetypally the wife or feminine counterpart of the Sky Father or Father Heaven, particularly in theologies derived from the Proto-Indo-European sphere (i.e. from Dheghom and Dyeus). In some polytheistic cultures, such as the Ancient Egyptian religion which narrates the cosmic egg myth, the sky is instead seen as the Heavenly Mother or Sky Mother as in Nut and Hathor, and the earth god is regarded as the male, paternal, and terrestrial partner, as in Osiris or Geb who hatched out of the maternal cosmic egg.

Title: Percy Jackson & the Olympians
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percy_Jackson_%26_the_Olympians
Excerpt: Percy Jackson & the Olympians is a fantasy novel series by American author Rick Riordan. It is the first of four book series in the Camp Half-Blood Chronicles, preceding The Heroes of Olympus, The Trials of Apollo, and The Nico di Angelo Adventures. The novels are set in a world with the Greek gods in the 21st century. The series follows the protagonist, Percy Jackson, a young demigod who must prevent the Titans, led by Kronos, from destroying the world.
The first three books were published in the United States by Miramax Books before they were folded into Hyperion Books; that house published the remaining books. All the books were published in the United Kingdom by Penguin Books. Four supplementary books, along with graphic novel versions of the first five books, have also been released. By January 2022, the books had sold more than 180 million copies worldwide, making the series one of the best-selling of all time. A follow-up trilogy in the series, The Senior Year Adventures, takes place after the events of The Heroes of Olympus and began in 2023 with The Chalice of the Gods. Three sequel series, The Heroes of Olympus, The Trials of Apollo, and The Nico di Angelo Adventures, follow.
The first book was adapted as a film titled Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief (2010). It was commercially successful but received mixed reviews from critics and the audience for its departure from the book. The first book was also adapted into a musical. The second book was adapted as a film titled Percy Jackson: Sea of Monsters (2013), which also received mixed reviews. A television series based on the novels premiered on Disney+ in 2023 to positive reviews.