Title: Stephen Boyd
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Boyd
Excerpt: William Millar (4 July 1931 – 2 June 1977), better known by his stage name Stephen Boyd, was an actor from Northern Ireland. He emerged as a leading man during the late 1950s with his role as the villainous Messala in Ben-Hur (1959), a role that earned him the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor – Motion Picture. He received his second Golden Globe nomination for the musical Billy Rose's Jumbo (1962).
Boyd also appeared, sometimes as a hero and sometimes as a malefactor, in the major big-screen productions The Man Who Never Was (1956), The Night Heaven Fell (1958), The Bravados (1958), The Fall of the Roman Empire (1964), Genghis Khan (1965), Fantastic Voyage (1966), The Bible: In the Beginning... (also 1966), and Shalako (1968).

Title: William Dunn Moseley
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Dunn_Moseley
Excerpt: William Dunn Moseley (February 1, 1795 – January 4, 1863) was an American politician.  Born in North Carolina, Moseley became a Democratic politician and served in the state senate.
Later he moved to Florida, which became a state in 1845. That year he was elected as the first Governor of Florida, serving from 1845 until 1849.

Title: Emile, or On Education
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emile,_or_On_Education
Excerpt: Emile, or On Education (French: Émile, ou De l'éducation) is a treatise on the nature of education and on the nature of man written by Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who considered it to be the "best and most important" of all his writings. Due to a section of the book entitled "Profession of Faith of the Savoyard Vicar", Emile was banned in Paris and Geneva and was publicly burned in 1762, the year of its first publication. It was forbidden by the Church, being listed on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum. During the French Revolution, Emile served as the inspiration for what became a new national system of education. After the American Revolution, Noah Webster used content from Emile in his best-selling schoolbooks and he also used it to argue for the civic necessity of broad-based female education.

Title: Armadillo (novel)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armadillo_(novel)
Excerpt: Armadillo is William Boyd's seventh novel, published in 1998. It was the first of his novels to be based in Britain. Boyd also wrote the screenplay for a BBC/A&E television adaptation in 2001.

Title: Justified (TV series)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justified_(TV_series)
Excerpt: Justified is an American neo-Western/Southern Gothic crime drama television series that premiered on March 16, 2010, on the FX network. Developed by Graham Yost, it is based on Elmore Leonard's stories about the character Raylan Givens, particularly "Fire in the Hole". Timothy Olyphant portrays Raylan Givens, a tough deputy U.S. Marshal enforcing his own brand of justice. The series revolves around the inhabitants and culture in the Appalachian mountains area of eastern Kentucky, specifically Harlan County where many of the main characters grew up. It also features Lexington, Kentucky, where the local U.S. Marshals office is situated. The series, comprising 78 episodes, was aired over six seasons and concluded on April 14, 2015. A limited sequel series, Justified: City Primeval, with Olyphant reprising his role as Givens, followed in 2023.
Justified received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and has been listed by several publications as one of the best shows of the 2010s. Its acting, directing, art direction, and writing were praised, as were the performances of Olyphant and Walton Goggins. Justified was nominated for eight Primetime Emmy Awards, with two wins, for Margo Martindale's performance as Mags Bennett and Jeremy Davies' performance as Dickie Bennett.