Title: 2010 Summer Youth Olympics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2010_Summer_Youth_Olympics
Excerpt: The 2010 Summer Youth Olympics, officially known as the I Summer Youth Olympic Games, and commonly known as Singapore 2010, were the inaugural edition of the Youth Olympic Games (YOG), an Olympic Games-based event for young athletes. Held in Singapore from 14 to 26 August 2010, it was the first International Olympic Committee–sanctioned event held in Southeast Asia. The Games featured about 3,600 athletes aged 14–18 from 204 nations, who competed in 201 events in 26 sports. No official medal tables were published, but the most successful nation was China, followed by Russia; host Singapore did not win any gold medals. Most features that are unique to the YOG, such as mixed-NOCs teams (comprising youths from different countries) and the Culture and Education Programme (CEP), made their debut at the 2010 Games.
Although the concept dates back to 1998, formal plans for the YOG were only first announced at the 119th IOC session on 6 July 2007. On 21 February 2008, Singapore was selected as the host city after defeating Moscow 53–44 in a postal vote by 105 International Olympic Committee (IOC) members. The Singapore Youth Olympic Games Organising Committee (SYOGOC) prepared eighteen competition venues and twelve training venues. The Float@Marina Bay hosted the opening and closing ceremonies and the Youth Olympic Village was located at Nanyang Technological University (NTU). The committee also selected Games mascots Lyo and Merly (a lion and a female merlion), the Spirit of Youth emblem (through a design competition) and the theme song "Everyone", performed by five singers representing each major continent, combining North and South America.
Online media, Asian newspapers and 166 television broadcasters provided extensive coverage of the Games. The torch relay, which began on 23 July 2010, comprised a thirteen-day world tour of five cities, each representing a continent, and a six-day domestic leg. Highlights of the opening and closing ceremonies include performances about Singaporean history and culture, a 32-metre (35 yd) Olympic cauldron, flags being brought onto stage and items featuring YOG symbols. The Games were marred by discrepancies in the budget and attendance figures, two wrestlers caught doping, a walkover in the taekwondo final and allegations that Bolivian footballers were overage.

Title: List of 2010 Summer Youth Olympics medal winners
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_2010_Summer_Youth_Olympics_medal_winners
Excerpt: The 2010 Summer Youth Olympics, the inaugural event of its kind, were celebrated in Singapore from 14 to 26 August 2010. A total of 3,531 athletes between 14 and 18 years of age from 204 National Olympic Committees (NOCs) participated at the Games in 201 events in 26 sports.
A number of new events were held, including mixed-gender swimming relays, a single combined mixed-gender cycling event, and a number of mixed-NOCs team events. To foster friendship among participants, teams were formed by athletes from different countries to compete, often on an intercontinental basis. There were such events included in archery, athletics, equestrian, fencing, judo, modern pentathlon, table tennis, and triathlon, and a number of pairs in doubles tennis were formed by athletes from two different NOCs. In addition, some traditional events at the main Olympic Games were modified, most notably in basketball, which was contested according to FIBA 33 rules.
A total of 623 medals for events (202 gold, 200 silver and 221 bronze) were awarded; in judo and taekwondo two bronzes were awarded per event. Therefore, the total number of bronze medals is greater than the total number of gold or silver medals. Additionally there were ties for a gold medal and a bronze medal, both in swimming. On 15 October 2010 the IOC announced that an Uzbek silver medallist had failed a drugs test and had been disqualified, but no immediate decision was taken on whether to promote the next two athletes.
Athletes representing China won the most gold medals (not counting mixed-NOCs events) with 30, and also won the most medals overall with 51. Athletes from 98 countries won medals at the Games. The most decorated athlete at these Games was Tang Yi, who won six gold medals in swimming.

Title: 2026 FIFA World Cup
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_FIFA_World_Cup
Excerpt: The 2026 FIFA World Cup was the 23rd FIFA World Cup, the quadrennial international men's soccer championship contested by the national teams of the member associations of FIFA. The tournament began on June 11, 2026, and concluded on July 19 with Spain winning the championship for the second time. It was jointly hosted by 16 cities—11 in the United States, 3 in Mexico, and 2 in Canada. The tournament was the first FIFA World Cup to be hosted by three countries and the first to include 48 teams, an expansion from the previous 32-team format.
The 2026 tournament was the second World Cup to be hosted by multiple nations, after the 2002 edition. Mexico became the first country to host the World Cup three times, having hosted the 1970 and 1986 tournaments. The United States previously hosted the World Cup in 1994, while it was Canada's first time hosting the tournament. The event returned to its traditional June–July schedule after the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, which was uniquely held in November and December to avoid Qatar's extreme summer heat. Canada, Mexico, and the United States qualified automatically as hosts, while Cape Verde, Curaçao, Jordan, and Uzbekistan made their World Cup debuts.
For the first time in the tournament's history, the top four teams from the FIFA Men's World Ranking at the time of the contest (Argentina, Spain, France, and England) advanced to the semifinals. Spain won the final against defending champion Argentina 1–0 after extra time, winning its second title and first since 2010. Spain also made history by being the first nation to become the reigning champion for both the men's and women's World Cups, and the first team to win the World Cup while conceding only one goal during the tournament. France captain Kylian Mbappé won his second consecutive Golden Boot for scoring the most goals (10) during the tournament. He became the all-time leading goalscorer at the World Cup and the first player to win multiple World Cup Golden Boots. The average number of goals per match in the tournament was 2.96, the highest since the 1970 edition.
Spain captain Rodri won the Golden Ball as the best player of the tournament. Unai Simón won the Golden Glove as the tournament's best goalkeeper, while Pau Cubarsí won the Young Player Award as the tournament's best young player. Nearly 7 million people attended matches during the tournament, surpassing the 1994 edition to set a new record for the highest attendance in World Cup history. The 2026 World Cup reportedly generated a record $15 billion in revenue.

Title: 2010 IPC Swimming World Championships
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2010_IPC_Swimming_World_Championships
Excerpt: The 2010 IPC Swimming World Championships was the sixth edition of the IPC Swimming World Championships, an international swimming competition, the biggest meet for athletes with a disability since the 2008 Summer Paralympics. It was held in Eindhoven, Netherlands and lasted from 14 to 21 August.

Title: Abracadabra (Lady Gaga song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abracadabra_(Lady_Gaga_song)
Excerpt: "Abracadabra" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Lady Gaga for her studio album, Mayhem (2025). It was written and produced by Gaga, Andrew Watt, and Cirkut, with additional songwriting credits to members of Siouxsie and the Banshees, as it incorporates elements from their 1981 single "Spellbound". Musically, it is a dance, dance-pop, electropop, synth-pop, and acid techno track with electronic, industrial, house, and psychedelic influences. The song's lyrics, according to Gaga, reflect on facing life's challenges and finding a sense of magic in them. "Abracadabra" was released through Interscope Records on February 3, 2025, as the album's second single.
An accompanying music video, co-directed by Gaga, Parris Goebel, and Bethany Vargas, depicts a dance battle between two contrasting personas of the singer and premiered on February 3, following a teaser which aired during a commercial break at the 67th Annual Grammy Awards. Critics praised its theatrical style and cinematography, drawing favorable comparisons to her earlier work. Gaga performed "Abracadabra" on Saturday Night Live, The Howard Stern Show, the MTV Video Music Awards 2025 and the 2026 Grammy Awards. She also sang it as part of the opening act for some concerts promoting Mayhem, including during the Mayhem Ball tour, and incorporated a remix of the track by French producer Gesaffelstein as a show interlude, which was released on digital platforms. Gaga also performed a reimagined version of the song for Mayhem Requiem.
"Abracadabra" received critical acclaim, with reviewers praising its production, rhythm, songwriting and chorus, and various critics ranked it among the best songs of 2025. Commercially, the song topped the charts in Hungary and Lithuania, while reaching the top ten in Austria, Brazil, Croatia, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and on the Billboard Global 200. "Abracadabra" also charted within the top twenty in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, France, New Zealand, the Philippines, Taiwan, the United Arab Emirates, and the United States. It also received diamond certifications in Brazil and France as well as platinum certifications in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, Greece, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, and the United Kingdom. At the 68th Annual Grammy Awards, "Abracadabra" was nominated for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, Best Dance Pop Recording, and—for its Gesaffelstein remix—Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical, winning the latter two.