Title: Stephen Boyd
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Boyd
Excerpt: William Millar (4 July 1931 – 2 June 1977), better known by his stage name Stephen Boyd, was an actor from Northern Ireland. He emerged as a leading man during the late 1950s with his role as the villainous Messala in Ben-Hur (1959), a role that earned him the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor – Motion Picture. He received his second Golden Globe nomination for the musical Billy Rose's Jumbo (1962).
Boyd also appeared, sometimes as a hero and sometimes as a malefactor, in the major big-screen productions The Man Who Never Was (1956), The Night Heaven Fell (1958), The Bravados (1958), The Fall of the Roman Empire (1964), Genghis Khan (1965), Fantastic Voyage (1966), The Bible: In the Beginning... (also 1966), and Shalako (1968).

Title: William Boyd
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Boyd
Excerpt: William, Willie, Will or Bill Boyd may refer to:

Title: William Boyd (writer)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Boyd_(writer)
Excerpt: William Andrew Murray Boyd  (born 7 March 1952) is a Scottish novelist, short story writer, screenwriter, and film director. He is best known for his novels, which include  A Good Man in Africa (1981), Any Human Heart (2002), and  Restless (2006), many of which have received critical acclaim and literary awards. Boyd has also written screenplays for film and television, including Chaplin (1992), and directed the World War I drama  The Trench (1999). 
His work is characterised by its narrative vitality and range, earning him numerous accolades including the Whitbread First Novel Award, the James Tait Black Memorial Prize, and the Costa Book Award. A number of his works are what he describes as "whole-life" novels which follow a protagonist through the highs and lows of a varied and often remarkable life. He regularly fuses fact with fiction and his lead characters encounter well-known historical figures. He was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2005 for services to literature. John Self, writing for The Booker Prizes, described Boyd’s work as “vigorous, entertaining novels” produced by an “exceptionally fertile imagination,” and praised his fiction as “fully committed to his stories and characters.”

Title: Don Boyd
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don_Boyd
Excerpt: Donald William Robertson Boyd (born 11 August 1948) is a Scottish film director, producer, screenwriter and novelist. He was a Governor of the London Film School until 2016 and in 2017 was made an Honorary Professor in the College of Humanities at Exeter University.

Title: Boyd Oxlade
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boyd_Oxlade
Excerpt: Boyd John Michael Oxlade (8 May 1943 – 24 January 2014) was an Australian author and screenwriter, best known for his novel Death in Brunswick, and the adapted screenplay, which he co-wrote.
Oxlade was born in Sydney, and received a Jesuit education in Ireland and at Xavier College in Melbourne, and then studied at Monash University.
He lived in Carlton North and worked as a nightclub cook and a gravedigger at Melbourne General Cemetery (which influenced some of the situations in his novel), then moved to Hobart for six years before returning to Melbourne. After a nine-year period of unemployment, he wrote the novel Death in Brunswick in the hope of making some money. The book was published by William Heinemann Australia in 1987, and the 1991 film adaptation—which Oxlade co-wrote with the film's director, John Ruane, and which starred Sam Neill, Zoe Carides and John Clarke—became a cult hit.
Oxlade died of cancer on 24 January 2014, aged 70. At the time of his death, he was working on a novel Ron Elms, the Flying Butcher of Alamein, a reworking of a screenplay he had written several years earlier.