Title: Sabretooth (character)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sabretooth_(character)
Excerpt: Sabretooth is a character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Chris Claremont and John Byrne, he first appeared in Iron Fist #14 (August 1977) and was initially depicted as a serial killer known as "the Slasher", before being developed into a villain associated with the X-Men during the "Mutant Massacre" crossover in 1986. This portrayal of Sabretooth has endured as the archenemy of the superhero Wolverine.
In his comic book appearances, Sabretooth is the alias of Victor Creed, a psychopathic mutant with enhanced senses, razor-sharp claws, superhuman strength and reflexes, and regenerative healing abilities. There have been various possible accounts of the origin of Sabretooth's feud with Wolverine. The most common story involves both of them being participants of the Weapon X super-soldier program. After Wolverine escapes and attempts to suppress his animalistic qualities, Sabretooth becomes obsessed with forcing Wolverine to embrace his feral instincts by tormenting him and ruining his life.
In the X-Men film series, Sabretooth is depicted as being Wolverine's brother, portrayed by Tyler Mane in X-Men (2000) and Deadpool & Wolverine (2024) and by Liev Schreiber in X-Men Origins: Wolverine (2009). In May 2008, Wizard magazine ranked Sabretooth #193 of the 200 best comic book characters of all time. In 2009, Sabretooth was ranked as IGN's 44th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.

Title: Changeling
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Changeling
Excerpt: A changeling, also historically referred to as an auf or oaf, is a human-like creature found throughout much of European folklore. According to folklore, a changeling was a substitute left by a supernatural being when kidnapping a human being. Although sometimes it was a "stock" (a piece of wood made magically to resemble the kidnapped human), more often the changeling was a supernatural being made magically to look like the kidnapped human. 

Supernatural beings blamed for stealing children included fairies, demons, trolls, nereids and many others. Usually, the kidnapped human was a child; but there were cases, particularly in Scandinavia and Ireland, where adults were taken.
Some modern scholars have argued these stories of replaced children originated as folklore explanations for autism or other developmental conditions.

Title: Wendigo
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wendigo
Excerpt: Wendigo () is a mythological creature or evil spirit originating from Algonquian folklore. The concept of the wendigo has been widely used in literature and other works of art, such as social commentary and horror fiction.
The wendigo is often said to be a malevolent spirit, sometimes depicted as a creature with human-like characteristics, who may possess human beings. It is said to cause its victims a feeling of insatiable hunger, the desire to eat other humans, and the propensity to commit murder. In some representations, the wendigo is described as a giant humanoid with a heart of ice, whose approach is signaled by a foul stench or sudden unseasonable chill.
In modern psychiatry, the disorder known as "Wendigo psychosis" is characterized by symptoms such as an intense craving for human flesh and fear of becoming a cannibal. Wendigo psychosis is described as a culture-bound syndrome. In some First Nations communities, symptoms such as insatiable greed and destruction of the environment are also thought to be symptoms of wendigo psychosis.
The wechuge is a similar being that appears in the legends of the Athabaskan people of the Northwest Pacific Coast. It too is cannibalistic; however, it is characterized as enlightened with ancestral insights.

Title: Ghost Rider
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ghost_Rider
Excerpt: Ghost Rider is the name of multiple superheroes appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. 
Marvel had previously used the name for a Western character whose name was later changed to Phantom Rider. The first supernatural Ghost Rider is stunt motorcyclist Johnny Blaze, who agrees to give his soul to "Satan" (later revealed to be an arch-demon named Mephisto) to save the life of his foster father. At night and when around evil, Blaze finds his flesh consumed by hellfire, causing his head to become a flaming skull. He rides a fiery motorcycle and wields blasts of hellfire from his body, usually from his hands. He eventually learns he has been bonded with the demon Zarathos. Blaze is featured in the series Ghost Rider (vol. 2) from 1972 to 1983.
The subsequent Ghost Rider series (1990–1998) features Danny Ketch as a new Ghost Rider. After his sister was injured by gangsters, Ketch comes in contact with a motorcycle that contains the essence of a Spirit of Vengeance. Blaze reappears in this 1990s series as a supporting character, and it is later revealed that Danny and his sister were Johnny Blaze's long-lost siblings. In 2000s comics, Blaze succeeds Ketch, becoming Ghost Rider again. In 2014, Robbie Reyes becomes Ghost Rider as part of the Marvel NOW! initiative. In 2024, Parker Robbins becomes Ghost Rider in the miniseries Ghost Rider: Final Vengeance.
In May 2011, Ghost Rider placed 90th on IGN's "Top 100 Comic Book Heroes" list. 
Nicolas Cage starred as the Johnny Blaze incarnation of the character in the 2007 film Ghost Rider and its 2012 sequel, Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance. Gabriel Luna and Tom McComas portray the Robbie Reyes and Johnny Blaze incarnations in the fourth season of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) television series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., with Henry Simmons and Clark Gregg portraying new incarnations Alphonso Mackenzie and Phil Coulson. Ryan Gosling will portray the character in the upcoming MCU film Ghost Rider (2028).

Title: Supernatural season 1
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supernatural_season_1
Excerpt: The first season of Supernatural, an American dark fantasy television series created by Eric Kripke, premiered on September 13, 2005, and concluded on May 4, 2006, after 22 episodes. It focuses on brothers Sam and Dean Winchester as they track down their father, John, who is on the trail of the demon who killed their mother and Sam's girlfriend. During their travels, they use their father's journal to help them carry on the family business—saving people and hunting supernatural creatures. Jared Padalecki and Jensen Ackles star as Sam and Dean, with Jeffrey Dean Morgan recurring as their father, John, and Nicki Aycox as the demonic Meg Masters. This is the only season to air on The WB, with all subsequent seasons airing on The CW, a joint venture of The WB and UPN.
The first sixteen episodes of the season aired on Tuesdays at 9:00 pm ET in the United States, after which the series was rescheduled to Thursdays. Overall, the season averaged about 3.81 million American viewers. The season gained many award nominations, among them two Primetime Emmy Awards for work done on the pilot episode. While some critics did not like the mostly anthology-like format, others praised the show for the emotional moments and noted the brotherly chemistry between the lead actors.
The season was internationally syndicated, airing in the United Kingdom on ITV, in Canada on Citytv, and in Australia on Network Ten. The first season was released on DVD as a six-disc box set on September 5, 2006, by Warner Home Video in Region 1. Although the season was split into two separate releases in Region 2, the complete set was released on October 2, 2006, and in Region 4 on October 2, 2007. The episodes are also available through digital retailers such as Apple's iTunes Store, Microsoft's Xbox Live Marketplace (now Microsoft Store), and Amazon.com's on-demand TV service.