Title: Nymphoides
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nymphoides
Excerpt: Nymphoides, or floatingheart, is a genus of aquatic flowering plants in the family Menyanthaceae. The genus name refers to their resemblance to the water lily Nymphaea. Nymphoides are aquatic plants with submerged roots and floating leaves that hold the small flowers above the water surface. Flowers are sympetalous, most often divided into five lobes (petals). The petals are either yellow or white and may be adorned with lateral wings or covered in small hairs. The inflorescence consists of either an umbellate cluster of flowers or a lax raceme, with internodes occurring between generally paired flowers.

 
Species of Nymphoides are sold as aquarium plants, including the "banana plant", N. aquatica and the "water snowflake", N. indica. Species native to the United States are N. cordata in the northeast and N. aquatica in the southeast. Nymphoides peltata is native to Europe and Asia but can be found in the United States as an invasive aquatic weed. The non-native species N. cristata and N. indica also reportedly occur in Florida (Jacono 2000).
Nymphoides hydrophylla's slim stems (spears) are eaten as a vegetable in Taiwan.
Numerous species of Nymphoides grow in Australia, and others exist in Africa, America, and Asia.

Species

There are approximately 50 species of Nymphoides, including:
Pantropical:

Nymphoides indica (L.) Kuntze
Africa:

Nymphoides bosseri A.Raynal
Nymphoides brevipedicellata (Vatke) A.Raynal
Nymphoides elegans A.Raynal
Nymphoides ezannoi Berhaut
Nymphoides forbesiana (Griseb.) Kuntze
Nymphoides guineensis A.Raynal
Nymphoides humilis A.Raynal
Nymphoides milnei A.Raynal
Nymphoides moratiana A.Raynal
Nymphoides rautaneni (N.E.Br.) A.Raynal
Nymphoides tenuissima A.Raynal
Nymphoides thunbergiana (Griseb.) Kuntze
North America:

Nymphoides aquatica (J.F.Gmel.) Kuntze
Nymphoides cordata (Elliott) Fernald
Central and South America:

Nymphoides fallax Ornduff
Nymphoides flaccida L.Sm.
Nymphoides grayana (Griseb.) Kuntze
Nymphoides herzogii A.Galàn-Mera & G.Navarro
Nymphoides humboldtiana (Kunth) Kuntze
Nymphoides microphylla (A.St.-Hil.) Kuntze
Nymphoides verrucosa (R.E.Fries)A.Galàn-Mera & G.Navarro
Eurasia:

Nymphoides peltata (S.G.Gmel.) Kuntze
Asia:

Nymphoides balakrishnanii P.Biju, Josekutty, Haneef & Augustine
Nymphoides coreana (Léveille) Hara
Nymphoides hastata (Dop) Kerr
Nymphoides hydrophylla (Lour.) Kuntze
Nymphoides krishnakesara K.T.Joseph & Sivar.
Nymphoides lungtanensis S.P.Li, T.H.Hsieh & C.C.Lin
Nymphoides macrospermum Vasudevan
Nymphoides siamensis (Ostenf.) Kerr
Nymphoides sivarajanii K.T.Joseph
Nymphoides tonkinensis (Dop) P.H.Ho
Asia and Australia:

Nymphoides aurantiaca (Dalzell) Kuntze
Nymphoides parvifolia (Wall.) Kuntze
Australia:

Nymphoides beaglensis Aston
Nymphoides crenata (F.Muell.) Kuntze
Nymphoides disperma Aston
Nymphoides elliptica Aston
Nymphoides exigua (F.Muell.) Kuntze
Nymphoides exiliflora (F.Muell.) Kuntze
Nymphoides furculifolia Specht
Nymphoides geminata (R.Br.) Kuntze
Nymphoides hydrocharioides (F.Muell.) Kuntze
Nymphoides montana Aston
Nymphoides planosperma Aston
Nymphoides quadriloba Aston
Nymphoides simulans Aston
Nymphoides spinulosperma Aston
Nymphoides spongiosa Aston
Nymphoides stygia (J.M.Black) H.Eichler
Nymphoides subacuta Aston
Nymphoides triangularis Aston

Title: Nymphoides peltata
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nymphoides_peltata
Excerpt: Nymphoides peltata, the fringed water-lily is perennial, rooted aquatic plant with floating leaves of the family Menyanthaceae. Synonyms include Menyanthes nymphoides L., Villarsia nymphoides, Limnanthemum peltatum S.G.Gmel., Nymphoides nymphoides (L.) Britton, and other vernacular names include yellow floating heart, floating heart, water fringe, and entire marshwort.
It is native throughout most of Europe (excluding Ireland and Scandinavia) and temperate Asia, and locally in Algeria in northwest Africa.
It has been spread by human cultivation outside its native range and is now naturalised in Ireland, Denmark and Sweden, much of North America, and New Zealand. In many of its introduced regions, N. peltata is considered a noxious weed because it can form dense mats that shade out locally native aquatic plant species, thereby reducing biodiversity.

Title: Nymphoides hydrophylla
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nymphoides_hydrophylla
Excerpt: Nymphoides hydrophylla, commonly known as crested floating-heart, is an aquatic plant of the family Menyanthaceae native to Taiwan. It has cordate floating leaves that support a lax inflorescence of dainty white flowers with fringed petal margins. Its slim stem (spear) is edible, and is used as vegetable in Taiwan, mostly produced at Meinong District, Kaohsiung.
Flowers of N. hydrophylla are gynodioecious. The fruit is a capsule bearing many flattened seeds.
The plants are commonly sold for use in ornamental water gardens. Outside their native range they can escape cultivation and become nuisance weeds, particularly in Florida. They are not killed by freezing, and have been reported in Lake Marion, South Carolina.

Title: Nymphoides crenata
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nymphoides_crenata
Excerpt: Nymphoides crenata, commonly known as wavy marshwort, is an aquatic perennial herb of the family Menyanthaceae endemic to Australia, found in all mainland states and the Northern Territory

Title: Diphlebia nymphoides
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diphlebia_nymphoides
Excerpt: Diphlebia nymphoides is a species of Australian damselfly in the family Lestoideidae,
commonly known as an arrowhead rockmaster. 
It is endemic to eastern Australia, where it inhabits streams and rivers.
Diphlebia nymphoides is a large, solid-looking damselfly; the adult male is a brilliant blue colour with a black and blue striped tail, while the female has a more muted colouring. It sits with its lightly tinted wings spread out.