Title: 2000 Summer Paralympics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2000_Summer_Paralympics
Excerpt: The 2000 Summer Paralympic Games or the XI Summer Paralympics were held in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, between 18 and 29 October. The Sydney Paralympics was the last time that the Summer Paralympics were organised by two different Organizing Committees. In this edition, a record 3,801 athletes from 123 National Paralympic Committees participated in 551 events in 19 sports. The 2000 Summer Paralympics were the second largest sporting event ever until that date held in Australia and in the Southern Hemisphere. Sydney was the eighth city to jointly host the Olympic and Paralympic Games. However, it was only the fourth to jointly organise both events in complete conjunction with the Olympics. This edition was also the first time that the Paralympics were held in Australia and Oceania.
The mascot for the 2000 Paralympics was Lizzie the frill-necked lizard.

Title: List of songs recorded by Kanye West
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_songs_recorded_by_Kanye_West
Excerpt: This is a list of songs recorded by Kanye West, an American rapper, record producer, and songwriter. The list includes over 600 released songs on which West appears as a main artist or featured artist, as well as a selection of notable unreleased recordings. Songs are organized alphabetically and cover West's discography from his early work in the 2000s through his releases in the 2020s, including collaborations released under group names such as Kids See Ghosts and ¥$.

Title: Follow God
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Follow_God
Excerpt: "Follow God" is a song by American rapper Kanye West from his ninth studio album, Jesus Is King (2019). The song was produced by West, BoogzDaBeast and Xcelence. The producers wrote it alongside Aaron Butts, though the song's sampling of work by Whole Truth led to songwriting credits being listed for Calvin and Curtis Eubanks. It was playlisted to UK mainstream radio by the BBC as the album's lead single on November 8, 2019, through GOOD Music and Def Jam. Around the time of release, the song was the top performing track from Jesus Is King on streaming services. A religious hip hop track, it includes a sample of "Can You Lose by Following God" by Whole Truth, which is chopped up in certain sections. On February 6, 2021, a Dr. Dre remix was leaked from the scrapped Jesus Is King II album.
The lyrics of "Follow God" are about Kanye West's connection with his father, which is in reference to both God and his biological father Ray West, while the meaning of being "Christlike" is questioned by him. The song received generally positive reviews from music critics; many named it the best track on Jesus Is King. Critics appreciated the bouncing beat and Whole Truth sample, and complimented West's rapping flow and pace. The song was awarded Top Gospel Song and Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the Year at the Billboard Music Awards and 51st GMA Dove Awards in 2020, respectively.
Commercially, "Follow God" debuted at number 7 on the US Billboard Hot 100, becoming West's 18th track to reach the top 10 on the chart. The song also reached the top 10 in nine other countries, including Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom. It was later certified double platinum and gold in the United States and the United Kingdom by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and British Phonographic Industry (BPI), respectively. The song also received a gold certification in Denmark by IFPI Danmark, while it was awarded this certification in Portugal by Associação Fonográfica Portuguesa (AFP). An accompanying music video was screened on November 6, 2019, and released the following day. It shows Kanye and Ray West drive ATVs in snow in Cody, Wyoming. The video concludes with a message from Kanye about his relationship with Ray West. Kanye West performed the song with the Sunday Service Choir as part of his Sunday Service concerts in 2019.

Title: List of 2024 Summer Olympics medal winners
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_2024_Summer_Olympics_medal_winners
Excerpt: The programme of the 2024 Summer Olympics featured 329 events in 32 sports, including the 28 "core" Olympic sports contested in 2016 and 2020, and four optional sports that were proposed by the Paris Organising Committee: breaking made its Olympic debut as an optional sport, while skateboarding, sport climbing, and surfing returned from 2020.

Title: Abracadabra (Lady Gaga song)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abracadabra_(Lady_Gaga_song)
Excerpt: "Abracadabra" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Lady Gaga for her studio album, Mayhem (2025). It was written and produced by Gaga, Andrew Watt, and Cirkut, with additional songwriting credits to members of Siouxsie and the Banshees, as it incorporates elements from their 1981 single "Spellbound". Musically, it is a dance, dance-pop, electropop, synth-pop, and acid techno track with electronic, industrial, house, and psychedelic influences. The song's lyrics, according to Gaga, reflect on facing life's challenges and finding a sense of magic in them. "Abracadabra" was released through Interscope Records on February 3, 2025, as the album's second single.
An accompanying music video, co-directed by Gaga, Parris Goebel, and Bethany Vargas, depicts a dance battle between two contrasting personas of the singer and premiered on February 3, following a teaser which aired during a commercial break at the 67th Annual Grammy Awards. Critics praised its theatrical style and cinematography, drawing favorable comparisons to her earlier work. Gaga performed "Abracadabra" on Saturday Night Live, The Howard Stern Show, the MTV Video Music Awards 2025 and the 2026 Grammy Awards. She also sang it as part of the opening act for some concerts promoting Mayhem, including during the Mayhem Ball tour, and incorporated a remix of the track by French producer Gesaffelstein as a show interlude, which was released on digital platforms. Gaga also performed a reimagined version of the song for Mayhem Requiem.
"Abracadabra" received critical acclaim, with reviewers praising its production, rhythm, songwriting and chorus, and various critics ranked it among the best songs of 2025. Commercially, the song topped the charts in Hungary and Lithuania, while reaching the top ten in Austria, Brazil, Croatia, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and on the Billboard Global 200. "Abracadabra" also charted within the top twenty in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, France, New Zealand, the Philippines, Taiwan, the United Arab Emirates, and the United States. It also received diamond certifications in Brazil and France as well as platinum certifications in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, Greece, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, and the United Kingdom. At the 68th Annual Grammy Awards, "Abracadabra" was nominated for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, Best Dance Pop Recording, and—for its Gesaffelstein remix—Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical, winning the latter two.