Title: Nuclear and radiation accidents and incidents
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_and_radiation_accidents_and_incidents
Excerpt: A nuclear and radiation accident is defined by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) as "an event that has led to significant consequences to people, the environment or the facility." Examples include lethal effects to individuals, large radioactivity release to the environment, or a reactor core melt. The prime example of a "major nuclear accident" is one in which a reactor core is damaged and significant amounts of radioactive isotopes are released, such as in the Chernobyl disaster in 1986 and the Fukushima nuclear accident in 2011.
The impact of nuclear accidents has been a topic of debate since the first nuclear reactors were constructed in 1954 and has been a key factor in public concern about nuclear facilities. Technical measures to reduce the risk of accidents or to minimize the amount of radioactivity released to the environment have been adopted; however, human error remains, and there have been many accidents with varying impacts as well as near misses and incidents. As of 2014, there have been more than 100 serious nuclear accidents and incidents from the use of nuclear power. Fifty-seven accidents or severe incidents have occurred since the Chernobyl disaster, and about 60% of all nuclear-related accidents/severe incidents have occurred in the United States. Serious nuclear power plant accidents include the Fukushima nuclear accident (2011), the Chernobyl disaster (1986), the Three Mile Island accident (1979), and the SL-1 accident (1961). Nuclear power accidents can involve loss of life and large monetary costs for remediation work.
Nuclear submarine accidents include the K-19 (1961), K-11 (1965), K-27 (1968), K-140 (1968), K-429 (1970), K-222 (1980), and K-431 (1985) accidents. Serious radiation incidents and accidents include the Kyshtym disaster, the Windscale fire, the radiotherapy accident in Costa Rica, the radiotherapy accident in Zaragoza, the radiation accident in Morocco, the Goiania accident, the radiation accident in Mexico City, the Samut Prakan radiation accident, and the Mayapuri radiological accident in India.
The IAEA maintains a website reporting recent nuclear accidents.
In 2020, the WHO stated that "Lessons learned from past radiological and nuclear accidents have demonstrated that the mental health and psychosocial consequences can outweigh the direct physical health impacts of radiation exposure.""

Title: Chernobyl exclusion zone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chernobyl_exclusion_zone
Excerpt: The Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant Zone of Alienation, also known as the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone or Chornobyl Exclusion Zone, is also called the 30-Kilometre Zone or simply The Zone, was established shortly after the 1986 Chernobyl disaster in the Ukrainian SSR of the Soviet Union.
Initially, Soviet authorities declared an exclusion zone spanning a 30-kilometre (19 mi) radius around the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, designating the area for evacuations and placing it under military control. Its borders have since been altered to cover a larger area of Ukraine including the northernmost part of Vyshhorod Raion in Kyiv Oblast, and adjoins the Polesie State Radioecological Reserve in neighbouring Belarus. The Chernobyl exclusion zone is managed by the State Agency of Ukraine of on Exclusion Zone Management of the State Emergency Service of Ukraine, while the power plant and its sarcophagus and the New Safe Confinement are administered separately.
The current area of approximately 2,600 km2 (1,000 sq mi) in Ukraine is where radioactive contamination is the highest, and public access and habitation are accordingly restricted. Other areas of compulsory resettlement and voluntary relocation not part of the restricted exclusion zone exist in the surrounding areas and throughout Ukraine. In February 2019, it was revealed that talks were underway to re-adjust the exclusion zone's boundaries to reflect the declining radioactivity of its outer areas.
Public access to the exclusion zone is restricted in order to prevent access to hazardous areas, reduce the spread of radiological contamination, and conduct radiological and ecological monitoring activities. Today, the Chernobyl exclusion zone is one of the most radioactively contaminated areas on Earth and draws significant scientific interest for the high levels of radiation exposure in the environment, as well as increasing interest from disaster tourists. It has become a thriving sanctuary, with naturally diverse flora and fauna and some of the thickest forests in Ukraine, primarily due to the lack of human activity in the exclusion zone since 1986.
Since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, the Chernobyl exclusion zone has been the site of fighting with neighbouring Russia, which captured Chernobyl on 24 February 2022. By April 2022, the Kyiv offensive failed and Russian military withdrew from the region. Ukrainian authorities continue to keep the exclusion zone closed to tourists, pending cessation of hostilities in the Russo-Ukrainian war.

Title: Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chernobyl_Nuclear_Power_Plant
Excerpt: The Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant (ChNPP) is a nuclear power plant undergoing decommissioning. ChNPP is located near the abandoned city of Pripyat in northern Ukraine, 16.5 kilometres (10 mi) northwest of the city of Chernobyl, 16 kilometres (10 mi) from the Belarus–Ukraine border, and about 100 kilometres (62 mi) north of Kyiv. The plant was cooled by an engineered pond, fed by the Pripyat River about 5 kilometres (3 mi) northwest from its juncture with the Dnieper River. The RBMK type graphite-moderated reactor used in this plant is considered an unusual design. It prioritizes cost efficiency over safety compared to other reactor designs, such as the VVER pressurized water reactor.
Originally named the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant of V. I. Lenin after the founding leader of the Soviet Union, the plant was commissioned in phases with the four reactors entering commercial operation between 1978 and 1984. On 26 April 1986, in what became known as the Chernobyl disaster, reactor No. 4 suffered a catastrophic explosion and meltdown; as a result of this, the power plant is now within a large restricted area known as the Chernobyl exclusion zone. Both the zone and the power plant are administered by the State Agency of Ukraine on Exclusion Zone Management. The three other reactors remained operational post-accident maintaining a capacity factor between 60 and 70%. In total, units 1 and 3 had supplied 98 terawatt-hours of electricity each, with unit 2 slightly less at 75 TWh. In 1991, unit 2 was placed into a permanent shutdown state by the plant's operator due to complications resulting from a turbine fire. This was followed by Unit 1 in 1996 and Unit 3 in 2000. Their closures were largely attributed to foreign pressures. In 2013, the plant's operator announced that units 1–3 were fully defueled, and in 2015 entered the decommissioning phase, during which equipment contaminated during the operational period of the power station will be removed. This process is expected to take until 2065 according to the plant's operator. Although the reactors have all ceased generation, Chernobyl maintains a large workforce as the ongoing decommissioning process requires constant management.
From 24 February to 31 March 2022, Russian troops occupied the plant as part of their invasion of Ukraine.

Title: Capture of Chernobyl
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capture_of_Chernobyl
Excerpt: During the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone was captured on 24 February, the first day of the invasion, by the Russian Armed Forces, who entered Ukrainian territory from neighbouring Belarus and seized the entire area of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant by the end of that day. On 7 March, it was reported that around 300 people (100 workers and 200 security guards for the plant) were trapped and had been unable to leave the power plant since its capture. On 31 March, it was reported that most of the Russian troops occupying the area had withdrawn, as the Russian military abandoned the Kyiv offensive to focus on operations in Eastern Ukraine.

Title: Dogs in the Chernobyl exclusion zone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dogs_in_the_Chernobyl_exclusion_zone
Excerpt: On April 25, 1986, a safety test was conducted on Chernobyl's Unit 4 reactor during a planned maintenance shutdown. Operators attempted to determine whether slowing the turbine could provide enough power to cool the reactor in the event of an outage. Miscommunication between the test engineers and plant safety staff led to the reactor operating under unstable conditions. The resulting power surge caused fuel damage, steam buildup, and two explosions early on April 26—one from steam pressure and another likely from the buildup of hydrogen. The blasts ignited fires and released radioactive material into the atmosphere, prompting the evacuation of nearby residents within a 30-kilometer zone that later became known as the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone.
After the 1986 nuclear disaster in Chernobyl, the regional domestic dog population suffered from environmental pollution originating from the radiation. This disaster made the environment highly mutagenic, leading to various evolutionary processes including, but not limited to, bottlenecks, directional selection, and higher rates of mutation resulting in evolutionary trajectories that differ from unexposed animals.