Title: Vaccine hesitancy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vaccine_hesitancy
Excerpt: Vaccine hesitancy is a delay in acceptance or refusal of vaccines despite availability and supporting evidence of effectivity. The term also includes accepting vaccines but remaining uncertain about their use or using certain vaccines but not others. Although adverse effects associated with vaccines are occasionally observed, the scientific consensus that vaccines are generally safe and effective is overwhelming. Vaccine hesitancy often results in disease outbreaks and deaths from vaccine-preventable diseases. Therefore, the World Health Organization characterizes vaccine hesitancy as one of the top ten global health threats.
Vaccine hesitancy is complex and context-specific, varying across time, place, and specific vaccine. It can be influenced by factors such as lack of proper scientific-based knowledge and understanding about how vaccines are made or work. Other possible factors include a fear of needles, distrust of or lack of confidence in public authorities (including healthcare providers) and/or the vaccine, complacency (the person does not see a need for the vaccine or does not see the value in it), and convenience (access to vaccines). It has existed since the invention of vaccination and pre-dates the coining of the terms "vaccine" and "vaccination" by nearly eighty years.
Although myths, conspiracy theories, misinformation, and disinformation spread by the anti-vaccination movement and fringe doctors lead to vaccine hesitancy and public debates around the medical, ethical, and legal issues related to vaccines, there is no serious hesitancy or debate within mainstream medical and scientific circles about the benefits of vaccination.
Opposition to mandatory vaccination may be based on anti-vaccine sentiment, concern that it violates civil liberties, reduces public trust in vaccination, or suspicion of profiteering by the pharmaceutical industry.

Title: COVID-19 vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_vaccine
Excerpt: A COVID‑19 vaccine is designed to induce immunity against SARS-CoV-2, the virus responsible for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). COVID-19 vaccines help reduce the risk of severe illness, hospitalization and death from the virus.
COVID‑19 vaccines were developed at an unprecedented pace to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, with the first clinical trials beginning in March 2020. Before approval, vaccines underwent the standard three phases of clinical trials, although phases were conducted in parallel to accelerate development. Vaccines have been developed based on both classical technologies (using inactivated virus or protein subunit) and novel platforms (mRNA or viral vector-based).
Prior research on coronaviruses causing severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) accelerated the development of various vaccine platforms in early 2020. The 2023 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded to Katalin Karikó and Drew Weissman for the development of effective mRNA vaccines against COVID‑19.
Major vaccines include the Pfizer–BioNTech mRNA vaccine, Moderna mRNA vaccine, and the Novavax protein subunit vaccine. With the emergence of new SARS-CoV-2 variants, the original vaccines—particularly Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna vaccines—have been updated. These "variant-adapted" vaccines are offered as booster doses. The immunity from the vaccines also wanes over time, requiring people to get boosters to maintain protection.
Common side effects of COVID‑19 vaccines include soreness, fatigue, headache, myalgia (muscle pain), and arthralgia (joint pain), which resolve without medical treatment within a few days. COVID‑19 vaccination is safe for people who are pregnant or are breastfeeding.
The COVID‑19 vaccines are widely credited for their role in reducing the spread of COVID‑19 and reducing the severity and death caused by COVID‑19. The Australian-based medical journal Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health estimated that between 14.4 and 19.8 million deaths were prevented by the vaccine. Many countries implemented phased distribution plans that prioritized those at highest risk of complications, such as the elderly, and those at high risk of exposure, such as healthcare workers. By December 2020, more than 10 billion vaccine doses had been preordered, with about half of the doses purchased by high-income countries comprising 14% of the world's population. As of August 2024, over 13 billion doses of COVID‑19 vaccines have been administered worldwide.

Title: Face masks during the COVID-19 pandemic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Face_masks_during_the_COVID-19_pandemic
Excerpt: During the COVID-19 pandemic, face masks or coverings, including N95, FFP2, surgical, and cloth masks, were used as public and personal health control measures against the spread of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19.
In community and healthcare settings, the use of face masks was intended as source control to limit transmission of the virus and for personal protection to prevent infection. When properly worn, face masks can limit the respiratory droplets and aerosols that are spread by infected individuals, helping protect healthy individuals from infection.
Scientific studies have concluded that the use of face masks is effective in protecting the individual using them against COVID-19. Various case-control and population-based studies have also shown that the increased use of masks in a community reduces the spread of SARS-CoV-2, although there is a paucity of evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Masks vary in their effectiveness. Fitted N95s outperform surgical masks, while cloth masks provide marginal protection. During the public health emergency, governments widely recommended (and, in some jurisdictions, mandated) the wearing of masks. Prominent national and intergovernmental health agencies and their leaders recommended the use of masks to reduce transmission, including the WHO, American, European, and Chinese Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Title: History of COVID-19 vaccine development
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_COVID-19_vaccine_development
Excerpt: SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, was isolated in late 2019.  Its genetic sequence was published on 11 January 2020, setting off an intense research effort to develop a COVID-19 vaccine. Vaccine development was expedited via unprecedented collaboration between academia, the pharmaceutical industry and governments. By June 2020, tens of billions of dollars were being invested to develop dozens of vaccine candidates and prepare for global vaccination programs. According to the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), the geographic distribution of COVID‑19 vaccine development shows North American entities to have about 40% of the activity, compared to 30% in Asia and Australia, 26% in Europe, and a few projects in South America and Africa.
In February 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) said it did not expect a vaccine against SARS‑CoV‑2 to become available in less than 18 months. Virologist Paul Offit commented that, in hindsight, the development of a safe and effective vaccine within 11 months was a remarkable feat. The rapidly growing infection rate of COVID‑19 worldwide during 2020 stimulated international alliances and government efforts to urgently organize resources to make multiple vaccines on shortened timelines; Four vaccine candidates entered human evaluation in March.
On 24 June 2020, China approved the CanSino vaccine for limited use in the military and two inactivated virus vaccines for emergency use in high-risk occupations. On 11 August 2020, Russia announced the approval of its Sputnik V vaccine for emergency use, though one month later only small amounts of the vaccine had been distributed for use outside of the phase 3 trial.
The Pfizer–BioNTech partnership submitted an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) request to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for their mRNA vaccine on 20 November 2020. On 2 December 2020, the United Kingdom's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) gave temporary regulatory approval for the Pfizer–BioNTech vaccine, becoming the first country to approve the vaccine and the first country in the Western world to approve the use of any COVID‑19 vaccine. The US and the EU followed later that month. The US also granted an EUA for the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine in December. Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates granted emergency marketing authorization for the Sinopharm BIBP vaccine. 
On 31 March 2021, the Russian government announced that they had registered the first COVID‑19 vaccine for animals. Named Carnivac-Cov, it is an inactivated vaccine for carnivorous  animals, including pets, aimed at preventing mutations that occur during the interspecies transmission of SARS-CoV-2.
In October 2022, China began administering an oral vaccine developed by CanSino Biologics using its adenovirus model.
Despite the availability of mRNA and viral vector vaccines, worldwide vaccine equity has not been achieved. The ongoing development and use of whole inactivated virus (WIV)  and protein-based vaccines has been recommended, especially for use in developing countries, to dampen further waves of the pandemic.

Title: German government response to the COVID-19 pandemic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_government_response_to_the_COVID-19_pandemic
Excerpt: The government of Germany initially responded to the COVID-19 pandemic in the country with preventive measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease 2019 in the country. With the nationwide spread of the disease from March 2020, preventive measures were replaced by containment measures, including a lockdown from March. On 25 March, the Bundestag made the determination of an epidemic situation of national significance (de:Epidemische Lage von nationaler Tragweite). This created a legal framework for the government of chancellor Angela Merkel and the heads of the 16 German states to agree on nationwide pandemic restrictions. Implementation of decisions by that panel remained a matter of individual states, however, leading to differences in anti-pandemic rules and regulations across states. The Bundesnotbremse (federal emergency brake) in force from April to June 2021 sought to establish uniformity.
The first months of fighting the pandemic were widely considered a success. This was seen by observers to have been due to a wide acceptance of the cautious course of Merkel, whose televised speech on 18 March was considered highly effective. Case numbers were decreasing to a degree that much of public life had returned to normal by late summer. This success was not repeated with the second wave of the pandemic, which saw daily new cases rise seven-fold over the course of October 2020 and resulted in a second lockdown from December 2020, and the third wave in the first months of 2021. Besides lockdown fatigue gaining ground, another reason was the approaching 2021 German federal election, in which CDU/CSU contenders for the succession of Merkel tried to draw contrasts, often with a less cautious approach to the pandemic than hers. The accelerating vaccination campaign was credited with overcoming the third wave.
The fourth wave of the pandemic from August 2021 led to record case numbers by November, while the severe cases and deaths among adults were far lower than in the previous waves due to the vaccinations. Before the formation of the Scholz cabinet in early December, observers saw anti-pandemic decision making as being hampered by the nature of the caretaker government of Merkel, while also saying that the government had since much earlier been overly hesitant to impose tough, unpopular decisions. With expiry of the epidemic situation of national significance in November 2021 a catalogue of measures was rolled out, including restrictions tied to the hospitalization rate. Booster shots were a central part of the government strategy against the Omicron variant. A partial vaccine mandate for health workers took effect in mid-March 2022, but a proposal for a vaccine mandate for all aged 60 and over was rejected in the Bundestag on 7 April, in what was seen by observers as a major setback for the government.
Many coronavirus measures faced legal challenges from individuals. In November 2021, the Federal Constitutional Court rejected a challenge against the Bundesnotbremse in which several members of the FDP (Free Democrats) party had participated. The far-right populist AfD party also challenged several measures.