Title: Canal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canal
Excerpt: Canals or artificial waterways are waterways or engineered channels built for drainage management (e.g. flood control and irrigation) or for conveyancing water transport vehicles (e.g. water taxi). They carry free, calm surface flow under atmospheric pressure, and can be thought of as artificial rivers.
In most cases, a canal has a series of dams and locks that create reservoirs of low speed current flow. These reservoirs are referred to as slack water levels, often just called levels. A canal can be called a navigation canal when it parallels a natural river and shares part of the latter's discharges and drainage basin, and leverages its resources by building dams and locks to increase and lengthen its stretches of slack water levels while staying in its valley.
A canal can cut across a drainage divide atop a ridge, generally requiring an external water source above the highest elevation. The best-known example of such a canal is the Panama Canal.
Many canals have been built at elevations, above valleys and other waterways. Canals with sources of water at a higher level can deliver water to a destination such as a city where water is needed. The Roman Empire's aqueducts were such water supply canals.
The term was once used to describe certain linear features on the surface of Mars, though modern imaging has shown this to be a misnomer.

Title: Economy of Egypt
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_Egypt
Excerpt: Egypt has a developing mixed economy, combining private business with government regulation. It is the 2nd largest economy in Africa, and 42nd in worldwide ranking as of 2026. It is a major emerging market economy and a member of the African Union, BRICS, and a signatory to the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). Since the 2000s, structural reforms including fiscal and monetary policies, tax adjustments, privatization, and new business legislation have helped Egypt move towards a more market-oriented economy and increased foreign investment. The reforms lifted annual macroeconomic growth and helped bring down the country's high unemployment and poverty rates.
Egypt is recovering from its 2023–2024 financial crisis. It has benefited from reforms under its development strategy Egypt Vision 2030, as well as a dramatic currency floatation in 2024 that resulted in a 38% depreciation of the Egyptian pound against the dollar after securing more than $50 billion in international financing. These steps, alongside agreements with global partners such as the IMF, World Bank, European Union, and Gulf States, have helped improve the credit outlook and stabilize the economy. It also benefits from political stability, proximity to Europe, and rising exports.
Egypt is the world's 4th largest recipient of remittances, an important source of foreign currency for the Egyptian economy. In 2025, the country received $41.5 billion from Egyptians working abroad, ranking just behind the Philippines. The country is also the world's 9th largest and Africa's top investment destination, attracting $46.1 billion in FDI during 2024. It has the largest manufacturing sector in Africa, accounting for approximately 22% of the continent's total manufacturing value. The Suez Canal, located in Egypt, is a major maritime corridor for global supply chains and one of the world's most important trade chokepoints. Around 12% of global trade passes through the canal, accounting for roughly 30% of worldwide container traffic and more than $1 trillion in goods annually. In 2020, about 19,000 vessels transited the route.

Title: Panama Canal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panama_Canal
Excerpt: The Panama Canal (Spanish: Canal de Panamá) is an artificial 82-kilometer (51-mile) waterway in Panama that connects the Caribbean Sea with the Pacific Ocean. It cuts across the narrowest point of the Isthmus of Panama, and is a conduit for maritime trade between the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Locks at each end lift ships up to Gatun Lake, an artificial fresh water lake 26 meters (85 ft) above sea level, created by damming the Chagres River and Lake Alajuela to reduce the amount of excavation work required for the canal. Locks then lower the ships at the other end. The original locks are 33.5 meters (110 ft) wide and allow the passage of Panamax ships. A third, wider lane of locks was constructed between September 2007 and May 2016. The expanded waterway began commercial operation on 26 June 2016. The new locks allow for the transit of larger, Neopanamax ships. An average of 200,000,000 litres (52 million US gallons) of fresh water is used in a single passing of a ship. The canal is threatened by low water levels during droughts.
The Panama Canal shortcut greatly reduces the time for ships to travel between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, enabling them to avoid the lengthy, hazardous route around the southernmost tip of South America via the Drake Passage, the Strait of Magellan or the Beagle Channel. Its construction was one of the largest and most difficult engineering projects ever undertaken. Since its inauguration on 15 August 1914, the canal has succeeded in shortening maritime communication in time and distance, invigorating maritime and economic transportation by providing a short and relatively inexpensive transit route between the two oceans, decisively influencing global trade patterns, boosting economic growth in developed and developing countries, as well as providing the basic impetus for economic expansion in many remote regions of the world.
Colombia, France, and later the United States controlled the territory surrounding the canal during construction. France began work on the canal in 1881, but stopped in 1889 because of a lack of investors' confidence due to engineering problems and a high worker mortality rate. The US took over the project in 1904 and opened the canal in 1914. The US continued to control the canal and the surrounding Panama Canal Zone until the Torrijos–Carter Treaties provided for its handover to Panama in 1977. After a period of joint American–Panamanian control, the Panamanian government took control in 1999. It is now managed and operated by the Panamanian government-owned Panama Canal Authority. Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 ships in 1914, when the canal opened, to 14,702 vessels in 2008, for a total of 333.7 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System (PC/UMS) tons. By 2012, more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the canal. In that year, the top five users of the canal were the United States, China, Chile, Japan, and South Korea. In 2017, it took ships an average of 11.38 hours to pass between the canal's two outer locks. The American Society of Civil Engineers has ranked the Panama Canal one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World.

Title: Red Sea
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Sea
Excerpt: The Red Sea is a mediterranean sea lying between the Arabian Peninsula and Africa. It is an inlet of the Indian Ocean. Its connection to the ocean is in the south, through the Bab-el-Mandeb Strait and the Gulf of Aden. To the north of the Red Sea lies the Sinai Peninsula, the Gulf of Aqaba, and the Gulf of Suez, which leads to the Suez Canal. It is underlain by the Red Sea Rift, which is part of the Great Rift Valley.
The Red Sea has a surface area of roughly 438,000 km2 (169,000 sq mi), is about 2,250 km (1,400 mi) long, and 355 km (221 mi) across at its widest point. It has an average depth of 490 m (1,610 ft), and in the central Suakin Trough, it reaches its maximum depth of 2,730 m (8,960 ft).
The Red Sea is quite shallow, with approximately 40% of its area being less than 100 m (330 ft) deep, and approximately 25% being less than 50 m (160 ft) deep. The extensive shallow shelves are noted for their marine life and corals. More than 1,000 invertebrate species and 200 types of soft and hard coral live in the sea. The Red Sea is the world's northernmost tropical sea and has been designated a Global 200 ecoregion.

Title: Belt and Road Initiative
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Belt_and_Road_Initiative
Excerpt: The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI or B&R), also known as the One Belt One Road (Chinese: 一带一路; pinyin: Yīdài Yīlù) and sometimes called the New Silk Road, is a global infrastructure and economic development strategy of the government of China since 2013. Projects in over 150 countries include ports, railways, highways, power stations, aviation, and telecommunications.
The initiative was launched by Chinese Communist Party (CCP) general secretary Xi Jinping in 2013 while visiting Kazakhstan. It aims to invest in over 150 countries and international organizations through six overland economic corridors and the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road. The BRI is central to China's foreign policy and economy. Overland transport routes include the China–Pakistan Economic Corridor, the Eurasian Land Bridge, and the New Eurasian Land Bridge. Maritime projects under the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road include the ports of Hambantota, Sri Lanka; Gwadar, Pakistan; and Piraeus, Greece. BRI has exported China's high-speed rail, such as in the Boten–Vientiane and Jakarta-Bandung lines.
As of 2025, participating countries account for nearly 75% of the world's population and over half of global GDP, based on aggregated membership and international economic datasets. The initiative is widely described as having the potential to enhance global trade, connectivity, and economic growth, particularly in developing economies. At the same time, it has been associated with concerns regarding environmental impact, human rights and governance standards, debt sustainability, and the dual-use nature of certain infrastructure projects.