Title: Quantum computing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_computing
Excerpt: A quantum computer is a computer that represents and processes information using quantum states. Quantum computations exploit phenomena such as superposition, interference, and entanglement. Quantum computers have the potential to complete some calculations exponentially faster than classical computers. For example, a large-scale quantum computer could break widely used encryption schemes and aid physicists in performing physical simulations. However, current hardware implementations of quantum computation are largely experimental and suitable for only certain specialized tasks.
The basic unit of information in quantum computing, the qubit (quantum bit), serves a similar function as the bit in ordinary or "classical" computing. Unlike a classical bit, which can be in one of two states (a binary), a qubit can exist in a linear combination of states known as a quantum superposition. The result of measuring a qubit is one of the two states, given by a probabilistic rule. If a quantum computer manipulates the qubit in a particular way, wave interference effects amplify the probability of the desired measurement result. Quantum algorithm design involves creating procedures that allow a quantum computer to perform this amplification.
Quantum computers are not yet practical for real-world applications. If a physical qubit is not sufficiently isolated from its environment, it suffers from quantum decoherence, introducing noise (error) into calculations. Governments have invested in research aimed at developing qubits with longer coherence times and lower error rates. Example implementations include superconductors (which isolate an electrical current by eliminating electrical resistance) and ion traps (which confine a single atomic particle using electromagnetic fields). Researchers have claimed that quantum devices can outperform classical computers on specific tasks, a metric referred to as quantum advantage or quantum supremacy. Such tasks are not necessarily useful for real-world applications. As a result, as of 2026 demonstrations are best understood as scientific milestones rather than evidence for near-term deployment. Global government investment in quantum computing reached $10 billion by April 2025.

Title: Richard Feynman
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Feynman
Excerpt: Richard Phillips Feynman (; May 11, 1918 – February 15, 1988) was an American theoretical physicist. He shared the 1965 Nobel Prize in Physics with Julian Schwinger and Shin'ichirō Tomonaga "for their fundamental work in quantum electrodynamics (QED), with deep-ploughing consequences for the physics of elementary particles".
He is also known for his work in the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics, the theory of the physics of the superfluidity of supercooled liquid helium, and the parton model. Feynman developed a pictorial representation scheme for the mathematical expressions describing the behavior of subatomic particles, which later became known as Feynman diagrams and remains widely used.
He assisted in the development of the atomic bomb during World War II and became known to the wider public in the 1980s as a member of the Rogers Commission, the panel that investigated the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster. Along with his work in theoretical physics, Feynman has been credited with having pioneered the field of quantum computing and introducing the concept of nanotechnology. He held the Richard C. Tolman professorship in theoretical physics at the California Institute of Technology.  In a 1999 poll of 130 leading physicists worldwide by the British journal Physics World, he was ranked the seventh-greatest physicist of all time.
Feynman was a keen physics popularizer through books and lectures, including a talk on top-down nanotechnology, "There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom" (1959) and his undergraduate lectures, The Feynman Lectures on Physics (1961–1964). He delivered lectures for lay audiences, recorded in The Character of Physical Law (1965) and QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter (1985). Feynman also became known through Ralph Leighton's collections of his anecdotes, Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman! (1985) and What Do You Care What Other People Think? (1988). Leighton covered his dream of travelling to Tannu Tuva in Tuva or Bust!. He has been the subject of several biographies, starting with Genius: The Life and Science of Richard Feynman by James Gleick.

Title: Travelling salesman problem
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Travelling_salesman_problem
Excerpt: In the theory of computational complexity, the travelling salesman problem (TSP) asks the following question: "Given a list of cities and the distances between each pair of cities, what is the shortest possible route that visits each city exactly once and returns to the origin city?" It is an NP-hard problem in combinatorial optimization, important in theoretical computer science and operations research.
The travelling purchaser problem, the vehicle routing problem and the ring star problem are three generalizations of TSP.
The decision version of the TSP (where given a length L, the task is to decide whether the graph has a tour whose length is at most L) belongs to the class of NP-complete problems. Thus, it is possible that the worst-case running time for any algorithm for the TSP increases superpolynomially (but no more than exponentially) with the number of cities.
The problem was first formulated in 1930 and is one of the most intensively studied problems in optimization. It is used as a benchmark for many optimization methods. Even though the problem is computationally difficult, many heuristics and exact algorithms are known, so that some instances with tens of thousands of cities can be solved completely, and even problems with millions of cities can be approximated within a small fraction of 1%.
The TSP has several applications even in its purest formulation, such as planning, logistics, and the manufacture of microchips. In warehouse operations, order picking routes are often modelled as variants of the travelling salesman problem, where a picker must visit multiple storage locations and return to a start or drop-off point while minimizing travel distance or time.
Slightly modified, it appears as a sub-problem in many areas, such as DNA sequencing. In these applications, the concept city represents, for example, customers, soldering points, or DNA fragments, and the concept distance represents travelling times or cost, or a similarity measure between DNA fragments. The TSP also appears in astronomy, as astronomers observing many sources want to minimize the time spent moving the telescope between the sources; in such problems, the TSP can be embedded inside an optimal control problem. In many applications, additional constraints such as limited resources or time windows may be imposed.

Title: Quantum decoherence
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_decoherence
Excerpt: Quantum decoherence is the loss of quantum coherence.  It involves generally a loss of information of a system to its environment. Quantum decoherence has been studied to understand how quantum systems convert to systems that can be explained by classical mechanics.  Beginning out of attempts to extend the understanding of quantum mechanics, the theory has developed in several  directions and experimental studies have confirmed some of the key issues. Quantum computing relies on quantum coherence and is one of the primary practical applications of the concept.

Title: Timeline of quantum computing and communication
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_quantum_computing_and_communication
Excerpt: This is a timeline of quantum computing and communication.