Title: Quantum computing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_computing
Excerpt: A quantum computer is a computer that represents and processes information using quantum states. Quantum computations exploit phenomena such as superposition, interference, and entanglement. Quantum computers have the potential to complete some calculations exponentially faster than classical computers. For example, a large-scale quantum computer could break widely used encryption schemes and aid physicists in performing physical simulations. However, current hardware implementations of quantum computation are largely experimental and suitable for only certain specialized tasks.
The basic unit of information in quantum computing, the qubit (quantum bit), serves a similar function as the bit in ordinary or "classical" computing. Unlike a classical bit, which can be in one of two states (a binary), a qubit can exist in a linear combination of states known as a quantum superposition. The result of measuring a qubit is one of the two states, given by a probabilistic rule. If a quantum computer manipulates the qubit in a particular way, wave interference effects amplify the probability of the desired measurement result. Quantum algorithm design involves creating procedures that allow a quantum computer to perform this amplification.
Quantum computers are not yet practical for real-world applications. If a physical qubit is not sufficiently isolated from its environment, it suffers from quantum decoherence, introducing noise (error) into calculations. Governments have invested in research aimed at developing qubits with longer coherence times and lower error rates. Example implementations include superconductors (which isolate an electrical current by eliminating electrical resistance) and ion traps (which confine a single atomic particle using electromagnetic fields). Researchers have claimed that quantum devices can outperform classical computers on specific tasks, a metric referred to as quantum advantage or quantum supremacy. Such tasks are not necessarily useful for real-world applications. As a result, as of 2026 demonstrations are best understood as scientific milestones rather than evidence for near-term deployment. Global government investment in quantum computing reached $10 billion by April 2025.

Title: Quantum teleportation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_teleportation
Excerpt: Quantum teleportation is a technique for transferring quantum information from a sender at one location to a receiver some distance away. While teleportation is commonly portrayed in science fiction as a means to transfer physical objects from one location to the next, quantum teleportation only transfers quantum information. The sender does not have to know the particular quantum state being transferred. Moreover, the location of the recipient can be unknown, but to complete the quantum teleportation, classical information needs to be sent from sender to receiver. Because classical information needs to be sent, quantum teleportation cannot occur faster than the speed of light.
One of the first scientific articles to investigate quantum teleportation is "Teleporting an Unknown Quantum State via Dual Classical and Einstein–Podolsky–Rosen Channels" published by C. H. Bennett, G. Brassard, C. Crépeau, R. Jozsa, A. Peres, and W. K. Wootters in 1993, in which they proposed using dual communication methods to send/receive quantum information. It was experimentally realized in 1997 by two research groups, led by Sandu Popescu and Anton Zeilinger, respectively.
Experimental determinations of quantum teleportation have been made in information content – including photons, atoms, electrons, and superconducting circuits – as well as distance, with 1,400 km (870 mi) being the longest distance of successful teleportation by Jian-Wei Pan's team using the Micius satellite for space-based quantum teleportation.

Title: Quantum key distribution
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_key_distribution
Excerpt: Quantum key distribution (QKD) is a secure communication method that implements a cryptographic protocol based on the laws of quantum mechanics, specifically quantum entanglement, the measurement-disturbance principle, and the no-cloning theorem. The goal of QKD is to enable two parties to produce a shared random secret key known only to them, which then can be used to encrypt and decrypt messages. This means, when QKD is correctly implemented, one would need to violate fundamental physical principles to break a quantum protocol. The QKD process should not be confused with quantum cryptography in general.
An important and unique property of QKD is the ability of the two communicating users to detect the presence of any third party trying to gain knowledge of the key. This results from a fundamental aspect of quantum mechanics: the process of measuring a quantum system in general disturbs the system. This means, a third party attempting to eavesdrop on the key must in some way measure it, thus introducing detectable anomalies, thereby revealing the presence of the eavesdropper. This unique property ensures that the distributed keys remain secure, as any attempt at interception will be immediately apparent and will invalidate the exchanged key. By using quantum superpositions or quantum entanglement and transmitting information in quantum states, a communication system can be implemented that detects eavesdropping. If the level of eavesdropping is below a certain threshold, a key can be produced that is guaranteed to be secure (i.e., the eavesdropper has no information about it). Otherwise no secure key is possible, and communication is aborted.
The security of encryption that uses quantum key distribution relies on the foundations of quantum mechanics, in contrast to traditional public key cryptography, which relies on the computational difficulty of certain mathematical functions, which although conjectured to be strong has not to date been formally proved. In contrast, QKD has provable security based on information theory, and forward secrecy.
The main drawback of quantum-key distribution is that it usually relies on having an authenticated classical channel of communication. In modern cryptography, having an authenticated classical channel means that one already has exchanged either a symmetric key of sufficient length or public keys of sufficient security level. With such information already available, in practice one can achieve authenticated and sufficiently secure communication without using QKD, such as by using the Galois/Counter Mode of the Advanced Encryption Standard. Thus QKD does the work of a stream cipher at many times the cost.
Quantum key distribution is used to produce and distribute only a key, not to transmit any message data. This key can then be used with any chosen encryption algorithm to encrypt (and decrypt) a message, which can then be transmitted over a standard communication channel. The algorithm most commonly associated with QKD is the one-time pad, as it is provably secure when used with a secret, random key. In real-world situations, it is often also used with encryption using symmetric key algorithms like the Advanced Encryption Standard algorithm.

Title: Timeline of quantum computing and communication
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_quantum_computing_and_communication
Excerpt: This is a timeline of quantum computing and communication.

Title: Superconducting quantum computing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superconducting_quantum_computing
Excerpt: Superconducting quantum computing is a branch of quantum computing and solid-state physics that implements superconducting electronic circuits as qubits in a quantum processor. These devices are typically microwave-frequency electronic circuits containing Josephson junctions, which are fabricated on solid state chips. 
Superconducting circuits are one of many possible physical implementations of qubits, the quantum computer's equivalent of a traditional bit in a classic computer. Qubits refer to a two-state quantum mechanical system, and have two logic states, the ground state and the excited state, often denoted 
  
    
      
        
          |
        
        g
        ⟩
        
           and 
        
        
          |
        
        e
        ⟩
      
    
    {\displaystyle |g\rangle {\text{ and }}|e\rangle }
  
 (for ground and excited), or 
  
    
      
        
          |
        
        0
        ⟩
        
           and 
        
        
          |
        
        1
        ⟩
      
    
    {\displaystyle |0\rangle {\text{ and }}|1\rangle }
  
. Superconducting quantum computing implementations are categorized as "solid state" quantum computers, where qubits are intrinsically integrated in a solid-state device. Solid state quantum computers also borrow fabrication techniques developed for solid state classical computation. 
Superconducting architecture is the dominant method in the industry for developing quantum processing units, or QPUs. Research in superconducting quantum computing is conducted by companies such as Google, IBM, IMEC, BBN Technologies, Rigetti, and Intel. Alternatives to superconducting qubits include trapped ions, and neutral atoms. 
Ongoing research in superconducting quantum computing includes device-level improvement, developing error correction methods, and demonstrating quantum advantage by comparing a quantum processor's performance to a classical computer.