Title: Quantum mechanics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_mechanics
Excerpt: Quantum mechanics, also known as quantum physics, is the fundamental physical theory that describes the behavior of matter and of light; the behaviors it models typically occur at and below the scale of atoms, and have often been described as counterintuitive. Its concepts and methods have been applied across many disciplines, including quantum chemistry, quantum biology, quantum field theory, quantum technology, and quantum information science.
Quantum mechanics can describe many systems that classical physics cannot. Classical physics can describe many aspects of nature at an ordinary (macroscopic and (optical) microscopic) scale; however, it is insufficient for describing them at very small submicroscopic (atomic and subatomic) scales. Classical mechanics can be derived from quantum mechanics as an approximation that is valid at ordinary scales.
Quantum systems have bound states that are quantized to discrete values of energy, momentum, angular momentum, and other quantities, in contrast to classical systems where these quantities can be measured continuously. Measurements of quantum systems show characteristics of both particles and waves (wave–particle duality), and there are limits to how accurately the value of a physical quantity can be predicted prior to its measurement, given a complete set of initial conditions (the uncertainty principle).
Quantum mechanics arose gradually from theories to explain observations that could not be reconciled with classical physics, such as Max Planck's solution in 1900 to the black-body radiation problem, and the correspondence between energy and frequency in Albert Einstein's 1905 paper, which explained the photoelectric effect. These early attempts to understand microscopic phenomena, now known as the "old quantum theory", led to the full development of quantum mechanics in the mid-1920s by Niels Bohr, Erwin Schrödinger, Werner Heisenberg, Max Born, Paul Dirac and others. The modern theory is formulated in various specially developed mathematical formalisms. In one of them, a mathematical entity called the wave function provides information, in the form of probability amplitudes, about what measurements of a particle's energy, momentum, and other physical properties may yield.

Title: Quantum chemistry
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_chemistry
Excerpt: Quantum chemistry, or molecular quantum mechanics, is a branch of physical chemistry which applies quantum mechanics to chemical systems to predict physical and chemical properties of molecules and materials. It often involves calculating electronic wave functions at the atomic level. These calculations make approximations to make simulations computationally feasible while capturing the relevant contributions to the computed wave functions and observable properties including the structures, spectra, and thermodynamics of a system. Quantum chemistry also covers the computation of quantum effects on molecular dynamics and chemical kinetics.  
Quantum chemistry studies focus on the electronic ground state and excited states of atoms, molecules, and ions. Such calculations allow chemical reactions to be described with respect to pathways, intermediates, and transition states. Spectroscopic properties may also be predicted. Typically, such studies assume the electronic wave function is adiabatically parameterized by the nuclear positions (i.e., the Born–Oppenheimer approximation). A wide variety of approaches are used, including semi-empirical methods, density functional theory, Hartree–Fock calculations, quantum Monte Carlo methods, and coupled cluster methods. 
Understanding electronic structure and molecular dynamics through the development of computational solutions to the Schrödinger equation is a central goal of quantum chemistry. Progress in the field depends on overcoming several challenges, including the need to increase the accuracy of the results for small molecular systems, as well as to increase the size of large molecules that can be realistically subjected to computation, which is limited by scaling considerations—the computation time increases as a power of the number of atoms.

Title: Mike Lazaridis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mike_Lazaridis
Excerpt: Mike Lazaridis, OC, FRS (born March 14, 1961) is a Canadian businessman who co-founded Research In Motion (now BlackBerry Limited), the company that created and manufactured the BlackBerry wireless handheld device. He has gone on to become a major supporter of Canadian academic physics and an investor in quantum computing technologies.
While still a student at the University of Waterloo (UW), Lazaridis responded to a 1984 call for proposals from General Motors, and after winning a GM contract, he left university, and with those and other funds, he, Mike Barnstijn, and Douglas Fregin launched Research in Motion (RIM). RIM first developed an award-winning barcode technology for use in the film industry; using those profits it researched wireless data transmission, leading to introduction of BlackBerry wireless mobile devices (1999–2002). Lazaridis would serve in various positions for RIM and BlackBerry, including co-CEO and co-chair of its board (1984–2012).
After a period of charitable and leadership roles, founding science research organizations (see following), Lazaridis joined Fregin in co-founding Quantum Valley Investments in March 2013, to "provide financial and intellectual capital for the further development and commercialization of breakthroughs in Quantum Information Science".
Among many other charitable contributions of Lazaridis and his wife, Ophelia, Mike Lazaridis and Douglas Fregin also facilitated a private fund of CA$100M in 1999 to establish the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics (he, thereafter, formed its Board and recruited its first Director), and his providing vision and funding to found the UW's Institute for Quantum Computing, including funding the advanced science building that hosts the institute.
Lazaridis has repeatedly been recognized for technical and societal contribution, including via an Emmy and an Oscar for the high-speed barcode reader used in film editing (1994 and 1999, respectively), honorary doctoral degrees from Waterloo and McMaster University (2000 and 2005, respectively), a 2002 Ernest C. Manning Awards Foundation Innovation Award (with RIM's Gary Mousseau), investiture as an Officer of the Order of Canada (OC, 2006), and, in acknowledgment of his roles in founding RIM, the Perimeter, and the IQC, his 2014 election as a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS).

Title: Cryptography
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptography
Excerpt: Cryptography, or cryptology, is the practice and study of techniques for secure communication in the presence of adversarial behavior. More generally, cryptography is about constructing and analyzing protocols that prevent third parties or the public from reading private messages. Modern cryptography exists at the intersection of the disciplines of mathematics, computer science, information security, electrical engineering, digital signal processing, physics, and others. Core concepts related to information security (data confidentiality, data integrity, authentication and non-repudiation) are also central to cryptography. Practical applications of cryptography include electronic commerce, chip-based payment cards, digital currencies, computer passwords and military communications.
Cryptography prior to the modern age was effectively synonymous with encryption, converting readable information (plaintext) to unintelligible nonsense text (ciphertext), which can only be read by reversing the process (decryption). The sender of an encrypted (coded) message shares the decryption (decoding) technique only with the intended recipients to preclude access from adversaries. The cryptography literature often uses the names "Alice" (or "A") for the sender, "Bob" (or "B") for the intended recipient, and "Eve" (or "E") for the eavesdropping adversary. Since the development of rotor cipher machines in World War I and the advent of computers in World War II, cryptography methods have become increasingly complex and their applications more varied.
Modern cryptography is heavily based on mathematical theory and computer science practice; cryptographic algorithms are designed around computational hardness assumptions, making such algorithms hard to break in actual practice by any adversary. While it is theoretically possible to break into a well-designed system, it is infeasible in actual practice to do so. Such schemes, if well designed, are therefore termed "computationally secure". Theoretical advances (e.g., improvements in integer factorization algorithms) and faster computing technology require these designs to be continually reevaluated and, if necessary, adapted. Information-theoretically secure schemes that provably cannot be broken even with unlimited computing power, such as the one-time pad, are much more difficult to use in practice than the best theoretically breakable but computationally secure schemes.
The growth of cryptographic technology has raised a number of legal issues in the Information Age. Cryptography's potential for use as a tool for espionage and sedition has led many governments to classify it as a weapon and to limit or even prohibit its use and export. In some jurisdictions where the use of cryptography is legal, laws permit investigators to compel the disclosure of encryption keys for documents relevant to an investigation. Cryptography also plays a major role in digital rights management and copyright infringement disputes with regard to digital media.

Title: India's quantum computer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/India%27s_quantum_computer
Excerpt: India's quantum computer is the proposed and planned quantum computer to be developed in India by 2026. A quantum computer is a computer based on quantum phenomena and governed by the principles of quantum mechanics in physics.  The development in the field of quantum computing in the world is also intricately linked to India. The legacy of quantum computing in India can be traced back from the period of Indian theoretical physicist Satyendra Nath Bose. His last four publication on quantum statistics and condensed matter physics led to the foundation of quantum mechanics. It was published in the year 1924. 

The first quantum computer India launch was of 7 qubits developed at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai. In April 2025, An Indian startup named QpiAi unveiled a 25 qubit Quantum Computer named Indus, this quantum computer launched, is the first full-stack quantum computing system in the country selected under National Quantum Mission India (NQM), Government of India scheme. In the next five years, it is expected that India will invest around one billion dollars in the programs related to the development of the quantum computer.  The Government of India has launched an initiative called as National Quantum Mission to achieve the goal of the development of the India's quantum computer. India is one of the seven countries having dedicated National Quantum Mission to the development of quantum technologies in the country. The union defence minister Rajnath Singh emphasized on the development of quantum computing during the ceremony of 16th foundation day of Indian Institute Technology, Mandi. 

"The time to come is of quantum computing."The Indian startup company QpiAI launched a 25 qubits quantum computer known as QpiAI-Indus on 14 April 2025. The QpiAI-Indus quantum computer is an India's one of the most powerful quantum computer. It is a superconducting quantum computer. The launch of the QpiAI-Indus quantum computer was announced on the occasion of the World Quantum Day. The QpiAI-Indus quantum computer is India's first full-stack quantum computing system that combines advanced quantum hardware, scalable control, and optimized software for transformative hybrid computing. In this quantum computer, advanced quantum processors, next-generation Quantum-HPC software platforms, and AI-enhanced quantum solutions have been integrated.