Title: Three-age system
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-age_system
Excerpt: The three-age system is the division of human prehistory (with some overlap into the historical periods in a few regions) into three time-periods: the Stone Age, the Bronze Age and the Iron Age, although the concept may also refer to other tripartite divisions of historic time periods. In some systems, a fourth Copper Age is added as between the Stone Age and Bronze Age. The Copper, Bronze and Iron Ages are also known collectively as the Metal Ages.
In history, archaeology and physical anthropology, the three-age system is a methodological concept adopted during the 19th century according to which artefacts and events of late prehistory and early history could be broadly ordered into a recognizable chronology. C. J. Thomsen initially developed this categorization in the period 1816 to 1825, as a result of classifying the collection of an archaeological exhibition chronologically – there resulted broad sequences with artefacts made successively of stone, bronze, and iron.
The system appealed to British researchers working in the academic field of ethnology – they adopted it to establish race sequences for Britain's past based on cranial types. The relative chronology of the Stone Age, the Bronze Age and the Iron Age remains in use, and the three-ages concept underpins prehistoric chronology for Europe, the Mediterranean world and the Near East.
The structure reflects the cultural and historical background of the Mediterranean basin and the Middle East. It soon underwent further subdivisions, including the 1865 partitioning of the Stone Age into Palaeolithic and Neolithic periods by John Lubbock. The schema, however, has little or no utility for establishing chronological frameworks in sub-Saharan Africa, much of Asia, the Americas, and some other areas; and has little importance in contemporary archaeological or anthropological discussion for these regions. In the archaeology of the Americas, a five-period system is conventionally used instead.

Title: Societal collapse
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Societal_collapse
Excerpt: Societal collapse (also known as civilizational collapse or systems collapse) is the fall of a complex human society characterized by the loss of cultural identity and of social complexity as an adaptive system, the downfall of government, and the rise of violence. Possible causes of a societal collapse include natural catastrophe, war, pestilence, famine,  economic collapse,  population decline or overshoot, mass migration, incompetent leaders, and sabotage by rival civilizations. A collapsed society may revert to a more primitive state, be absorbed into a stronger society, or completely disappear.
Virtually all civilizations have suffered such a fate, regardless of their size or complexity. Most never recovered, such as the Western and Eastern Roman Empires, the Maya civilization, and the Easter Island civilization. Some civilizations like ancient Greece have survived indirectly through other civilizations such as the West, while other ancient civilizations like Chinese civilization and Indian civilization have survived continuously to the present day.
Anthropologists, historians, and sociologists have proposed a variety of explanations for the collapse of civilizations involving causative factors such as environmental degradation, depletion of resources, costs of rising complexity, invasion, disease, decay of social cohesion, growing inequality, extractive institutions, long-term decline of cognitive abilities, loss of creativity, and misfortune. Complete extinction of a culture is not inevitable, and in some cases, the new societies that arise from the ashes of the old one are evidently its offspring, despite a dramatic reduction in sophistication. The influence of a collapsed society, such as the Western Roman Empire, may linger on long after its death.
The study of societal collapse, collapsology, is a topic for specialists of history, anthropology, sociology, and political science. More recently, they are joined by experts in cliodynamics and study of complex systems.

Title: Late Bronze Age collapse
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Late_Bronze_Age_collapse
Excerpt: The Late Bronze Age collapse was a period of societal collapse in the Mediterranean basin during the late 13th to early 12th century BC. It is thought to have affected much of the Eastern Mediterranean and Near East, in particular Egypt, Anatolia, the Aegean, eastern Libya, and the Balkans. The collapse was sudden, violent, and culturally disruptive for many Bronze Age civilizations, creating a sharp material decline for the region's previously existing powers.
The palace economy of Mycenaean Greece, the Aegean region, and Anatolia that characterized the Late Bronze Age disintegrated, transforming into the small isolated village cultures of the Greek Dark Ages, which lasted from c. 1200 BC to c. 800 BC, and were followed by the better-known Archaic Age. The Hittite Empire spanning Anatolia and the Levant collapsed, while states such as the Middle Assyrian Empire in Mesopotamia and the New Kingdom of Egypt survived in weakened forms. Other cultures, such as the Phoenicians, enjoyed increased autonomy and power with the waning military presence of Egypt and Assyria in West Asia.
Competing theories of the cause of the Late Bronze Age collapse have been proposed since the 19th century, with most involving the violent destruction of cities and towns. These include climate change, volcanic eruptions, droughts, disease, invasions by the Sea Peoples, economic disruptions due to increased ironworking, and changes in military technology and strategy that brought the decline of chariot warfare. Following the collapse, gradual changes in metallurgic technology led to the subsequent Iron Age across Europe, Asia, and Africa during the 1st millennium BC. Scholarship in the late 20th and early 21st century introduced views that the collapse was more limited in scale and scope than previously thought.

Title: Classic Maya collapse
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classic_Maya_collapse
Excerpt: In archaeology, the classic Maya collapse is a model to describe the destabilization of Classic Maya civilization and the violent collapse and abandonment of many southern lowlands city-states between the 7th and 9th centuries CE. Modern scholars increasingly describe this period as a "rupture" or transformation rather than a true collapse, because a number of Maya cities survived even if they faced a period of instability. 
The Classic Period of Mesoamerican chronology is generally defined as the period from 250 to 900 CE, the last century of which is referred to as the Terminal Classic. The Classic Maya collapse is one of the greatest unsolved mysteries in archaeology. Urban centers of the southern lowlands, among them Palenque, Copán, Tikal, and Calakmul, went into decline during the 8th and 9th centuries and were abandoned shortly thereafter. Archaeologically, this decline is indicated by the cessation of monumental inscriptions and the reduction of large-scale architectural construction at the primary urban centers of the Classic Period.
Although termed a collapse, it did not mark the end of the Maya civilization but rather a shift away from the Southern Lowlands as a power center; the Northern Yucatán in particular prospered afterwards, although with very different artistic and architectural styles, and with much less use of monumental hieroglyphic writing. In the Post-Classic Period following the collapse, the state of Chichén Itzá built an empire that briefly united much of the Maya region, and centers such as Mayapán and Uxmal flourished, as did the Highland states of the Kʼicheʼ and Kaqchikel Maya. Independent Maya civilization continued until 1697 when the Spanish conquered Nojpetén, the last independent city-state. Millions of Maya people still inhabit the Yucatán peninsula today.
Because parts of Maya civilization unambiguously continued, a number of scholars strongly dislike the term "collapse". In his recent book, The Four Heavens, David Stuart argues that historical ruptures were a regular if dramatic part of Maya culture, noting similar abandonment events at Aguada Fenix in 1000 BCE and El Mirador at the end of the Preclassic. He notes that one of the major changes was the government system--the abandonment of the Ajawlel. This may have been the result of the political rise of the merchant class. 
But an objection to the term "collapse" is nothing new. As early as the 1970s, E. Wyllys Andrews IV went as far as to say, "in my belief no such thing happened."

Title: Dissolution of the Soviet Union
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dissolution_of_the_Soviet_Union
Excerpt: The Soviet Union was formally dissolved and ceased to exist as a sovereign state and subject of international law on December 26, 1991. It also brought an end to the Soviet Union's federal government and to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's efforts to reform the Soviet political and economic system in an attempt to stop a period of political and economic stagnation. 
The collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 resulted from several factors: chronic economic stagnation, the unsustainable financial burden of the arms race with the United States and foreign conflicts, intense ethnic nationalism and separatism within its union republics, and the destabilizing effects of Gorbachev's reforms (particularly glasnost and perestroika).
The process began with growing unrest in the country's union republics developing into an incessant political and legislative conflict between them and the central government. Until its final years, the Soviet Union was made up of 15 union republics that served as the homelands of different ethnic groups. Estonia was the first union republic to declare state sovereignty on 16 November 1988. Lithuania was the first republic to declare independence, in March 1990.
During the failed 1991 August coup, communist hardliners attempted to overthrow Gorbachev and reverse his reforms. However, the turmoil caused the central government in Moscow to lose influence, ultimately leading many republics to declare independence in the following days and months. On 8 December 1991, the leaders of its three founding republics—the Russian SFSR, the Byelorussian SSR, and the Ukrainian SSR—signed the Belovezh Accords and declared that the Soviet Union no longer existed. Eight more republics joined the declaration shortly thereafter. The Belovezha Accords also established the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) to replace the Soviet Union as a community. Kazakhstan was the last republic to declare independence, on 16 December. All post-Soviet states, with the exception of Georgia and the Baltic states, joined the CIS on 21 December by signing the Alma-Ata Protocol. Russia, as by far the largest and most populous republic, became the Soviet Union's recognized successor state. 
On 25 December 1991, Gorbachev resigned and transferred his presidential powers—including control of the nuclear launch codes—to Russian president Boris Yeltsin. That evening, the Soviet flag was lowered from the Moscow Kremlin for the last time and replaced with the Russian tricolor. The following day, the Soviet of the Republics, the upper chamber of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union, formally dissolved the Soviet Union by adopting Declaration No. 142-N. The dissolution marked the culmination of the Revolutions of 1989 and the end of the Cold War.
In the aftermath of the Cold War, several of the post-Soviet states have retained close links with Russia and formed multilateral organizations such as the CIS and the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO). A few, notably the Baltic states, moved out of the Russian sphere of influence and towards the West.