Title: National Institutes of Health
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Institutes_of_Health
Excerpt: The National Institutes of Health (NIH) is the primary agency of the United States federal government responsible for biomedical and public health research. It was founded in 1887 and is part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Many NIH facilities are located in Bethesda, Maryland, and other nearby suburbs of the Washington metropolitan area, with other primary facilities in  Research Triangle Park in North Carolina and smaller satellite facilities located around the United States.
The NIH conducts its scientific research through the NIH Intramural Research Program (IRP) and provides significant biomedical research funding to non-NIH research facilities through its Extramural Research Program. As of 2013, the IRP had 1,200 principal investigators and more than 4,000 postdoctoral fellows in basic, translational, and clinical research, being the largest biomedical research institution in the world, while, as of 2003, the extramural arm provided 28% of biomedical research funding spent annually in the U.S., or about US$26.4 billion. Basic research by the NIH contributed to every new drug approved by the Federal Drug Administration over the period 2010–2016.  In early 2025, the Trump administration froze key NIH operations, and by January 2026 about 2,600 grants totaling $1.4 billion remained suspended, though some were reinstated due to court orders.
The NIH is responsible for many scientific accomplishments, including the discovery of fluoride to prevent tooth decay, the use of lithium to manage bipolar disorder, and the creation of vaccines against hepatitis, Haemophilus influenzae (HIB), and human papillomavirus (HPV).  In 2012, the NIH comprised 27 separate institutes and centers of different biomedical disciplines.
In 2019, the NIH was ranked number two in the world, behind Harvard University, for biomedical sciences in the Nature Index, which measured the largest contributors to papers published in a subset of leading journals from 2015 to 2018.

Title: Western African Ebola epidemic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_African_Ebola_epidemic
Excerpt: The 2013–2016 epidemic of Ebola virus disease, centered in West Africa, was the most widespread outbreak of the disease in history. It caused major loss of life and socioeconomic disruption in the region, mainly in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. The first cases were recorded in Guinea in December 2013; the disease spread to neighbouring Liberia and Sierra Leone, with minor outbreaks occurring in Nigeria and Mali. Secondary infections of medical workers occurred in the United States and Spain. Isolated cases were recorded in Senegal, the United Kingdom and Italy. The number of cases peaked in October 2014 and then began to decline gradually, following the commitment of substantial international resources. 
It caused significant mortality, with a high case fatality rate. By the end of the epidemic, 28,616 people had been infected; of these, 11,310 had died, for a case-fatality rate of 40%. As of 8 May 2016, the World Health Organization (WHO) and respective governments reported a total of 28,646 suspected cases and 11,323 deaths (39.5%), though the WHO believes that this substantially understates the magnitude of the outbreak. On 8 August 2014, a Public Health Emergency of International Concern was declared and on 29 March 2016, the WHO terminated the Public Health Emergency of International Concern status of the outbreak. Subsequent flare-ups occurred; the epidemic was finally declared over on 9 June 2016, 42 days after the last case tested negative on 28 April 2016 in Monrovia.
The outbreak left about 17,000 survivors of the disease, many of whom report post-recovery symptoms termed post-Ebola syndrome, often severe enough to require medical care for months or even years. An additional cause for concern is the apparent ability of the virus to "hide" in a recovered survivor's body for an extended period and then become active months or years later, either in the same individual or in a sexual partner. In December 2016, the WHO announced that a two-year trial of the rVSV-ZEBOV vaccine appeared to offer protection from the variant of EBOV responsible for the Western Africa outbreak. The vaccine is considered to be effective and is the only prophylactic that offers protection; hence, 300,000 doses have been stockpiled. rVSV-ZEBOV received regulatory approval in 2019.

Title: Pandemic prevention
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pandemic_prevention
Excerpt: Pandemic prevention is the organization and management of preventive measures against pandemics. Those include measures to reduce causes of new infectious diseases and measures to prevent outbreaks and epidemics from becoming pandemics. It is not to be mistaken for pandemic preparedness or mitigation (e.g. against COVID-19) which largely seek to mitigate the magnitude of negative effects of pandemics, although the topics may overlap with pandemic prevention in some respects.
Pandemics typically arise naturally from interactions between humans and animals, but emerging technologies are also expected to facilitate the synthesis and enhancement of dangerous pathogens, making bioterrorism and laboratory accidents emerging threats.
Pandemic prevention measures include early detection systems, international coordination with information sharing, laboratory biosafety protocols, oversight of gain-of-function research, restricting access to dual-use biotechnology, monitoring spillover risks in wild animal populations, regulating wildlife trade and wet markets, reducing intensive animal farming, protecting ecosystems, and strengthening public health care systems.

In May 2025, all Member States of the World Health Organization (WHO) formally adopted the world's first Pandemic Agreement.

Title: COVID-19 vaccination in Malaysia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_vaccination_in_Malaysia
Excerpt: The National COVID-19 Immunisation Programme (Malay: Program Imunisasi COVID-19 Kebangsaan), abbreviated as NIP or PICK, was a national vaccination campaign implemented by the Malaysian government to curb the spread of COVID-19 and to end the COVID-19 pandemic in Malaysia by achieving the highest possible immunisation rate among its citizens and non-citizens residing in the country. It was the largest immunisation programme in the history of Malaysia and was administered by the Special Committee for Ensuring Access to COVID-19 Vaccine Supply (JKJAV) starting in early 2021.
Although it ran smoothly for the most part, the programme faced numerous controversies and issues. These included a slow vaccine rollout due to a lack of vaccine supplies, although the Malaysian government had purchased more than enough for the population. There were also concerns about poor prioritization of vaccine recipients, logistical problems with the MySejahtera's digital vaccination appointment and certificate system, misinformation about vaccines, outbreaks, overcrowding at vaccination centres, and reports of poor treatment of foreign workers by volunteers and authorities. Videos of recipients receiving empty shots also surfaced, which the government attributed to human error caused by the fatigue of vaccinators. Additionally, there were unverified rumours of vaccine spots being sold by volunteers.
A whole-of-government and whole-of-society approach was adopted to assist the programme, involving several ministries and government agencies, state governments, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), the private sector, and members of the community to ensure that the programme achieved its target. Khairy Jamaluddin, who was also Malaysia's Science, Technology and Innovation Minister (MOSTI), was appointed as the Coordinating Minister for the National COVID-19 Immunisation Programme after being approved by the Malaysian Cabinet. He served in this role until his resignation on 16 August 2021.
The immunisation programme was implemented in phases from 24 February 2021 to February 2022, starting with Phase 1, which targeted healthcare workers and frontliners. Then Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin became the first individual in Malaysia to receive the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, in a broadcast that was aired live nationwide. As of the third week of September 2021, Malaysia averaged about 244,588 doses administered each day. At that rate, it was estimated that it would take an additional 27 days to administer enough doses for another 10% of the population.

According to the State of Mobile 2022 report, Malaysia's MySejahtera app ranked first in the world for install penetration rate and open rate among the Top COVID-19 Apps by Downloads Worldwide in 2021.

Title: Timeline of aging research
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_aging_research
Excerpt: This timeline lists notable events in the history of research into senescence or biological aging, including the research and development of life extension methods, brain aging delay methods and rejuvenation.
People have long been interested in making their lives longer and healthier. The most ancient Egyptian, Indian and Chinese books contain reasoning about aging. Ancient Egyptians used garlic in large quantities to extend their lifespan. Hippocrates (c. 460 – c. 370 BCE), in his Aphorisms, and Aristotle (384–322 BCE), in On youth and old age, expressed their opinions about reasons for old age and gave advice about lifestyle. Medieval Persian physician Ibn Sina (c. 980 – 1037), known in the West as Avicenna, summarized the achievements of earlier generations about this issue.