Title: Congestion pricing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Congestion_pricing
Excerpt: Congestion pricing or congestion charges is a system of surcharging users of public goods that are subject to congestion through excess demand, such as through higher peak charges for use of bus services, electricity, metros, railways, telephones, and road pricing to reduce traffic congestion; airlines and shipping companies may be charged higher fees for slots at airports and through canals at busy times. This pricing strategy regulates demand, making it possible to manage congestion without increasing supply.
According to the economic theory behind congestion pricing, the objective of this policy is to use the price mechanism to cover the social cost of an activity where users otherwise do not pay for the negative externalities they create (such as driving in a congested area during peak demand). By setting a price on an over-consumed product, congestion pricing encourages the redistribution of the demand in space or in time, leading to more efficient outcomes.
Singapore was the first country to introduce congestion pricing on its urban roads in 1975, and was refined in 1998. Since then, it has been implemented in cities including London, Durham, England, Stockholm, Gothenburg, Milan, and New York City. In the United States, it was also considered in Washington, D.C., San Francisco, and Boston prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Outside of the United States, congestion pricing programs have been piloted or proposed in Bangkok, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Switzerland, and Hong Kong in the 1980s and since 2018.
Greater awareness of the harms of pollution and emissions of greenhouse gases in the context of climate change has recently created greater interest in congestion pricing. Implementation of congestion pricing has reduced traffic congestion in urban areas, reduced pollution, reduced asthma, and increased home values, but has also sparked criticism and political discontent.
There is a consensus among economists that congestion pricing in crowded transportation networks, and subsequent use of the proceeds to lower other taxes, makes citizens on average better off. Economists disagree over how to set tolls, how to cover common costs, what to do with any excess revenues, whether and how "losers" from tolling previously free roads should be compensated, and whether to privatize highways.

Title: Glossary of nautical terms (A–L)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glossary_of_nautical_terms_(A%E2%80%93L)
Excerpt: This glossary of nautical terms is an alphabetical listing of terms and expressions connected with ships, shipping, seamanship and navigation on water (mostly though not necessarily on the sea). Some remain current, while many date from the 17th to 19th centuries. The word nautical derives from the Latin nauticus, from Greek nautikos, from nautēs: "sailor", from naus: "ship".
Further information on nautical terminology may also be found at Nautical metaphors in English, and additional military terms are listed in the Multiservice tactical brevity code article. Terms used in other fields associated with bodies of water can be found at Glossary of fishery terms, Glossary of underwater diving terminology, Glossary of rowing terms, and Glossary of meteorology.

Title: Panama Canal expansion project
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panama_Canal_expansion_project
Excerpt: The Panama Canal expansion project (Spanish: ampliación del Canal de Panamá), also called the Third Set of Locks Project, doubled the capacity of the Panama Canal by adding a new traffic lane, enabling more ships to transit the waterway, and increasing the width and depth of the lanes and locks, allowing larger ships to pass. The new ships, called New Panamax, are about one and a half times larger than the previous Panamax size and can carry over twice as much cargo. The expanded canal began commercial operation on 26 June 2016.
The project has:

Built two new sets of locks, one each on the Atlantic and Pacific sides, and excavated new channels to the new locks
Widened and deepened existing channels
Raised the maximum operating water level of Gatun Lake
Then-Panamanian President Martín Torrijos formally proposed the project on 24 April 2006, saying it would transform Panama into a First World country. A national referendum approved the proposal by a 76.8 percent majority on 22 October the same year, and the Cabinet and National Assembly followed suit. The project formally began in 2007.
It was initially announced that the canal expansion would be completed by August 2014 to coincide with the 100th anniversary of the opening of the Panama Canal, but various setbacks, including strikes and disputes with the construction consortium over cost overruns, pushed the completion date back several times. Following additional difficulties including seepage from the new locks, the expansion was opened on 26 June 2016. The expansion doubled the canal's capacity. On 2 March 2018, the Panama Canal Authority announced that 3,000 New Panamax ships had crossed the canal expansion during its first 20 months of operation.

Title: History of the United States Merchant Marine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_United_States_Merchant_Marine
Excerpt: The maritime history of the United States is a broad theme within the history of the United States. As an academic subject, it crosses the boundaries of standard disciplines, focusing on understanding the United States' relationship with the oceans, seas, and major waterways of the globe. The focus is on merchant shipping, and the financing and manning of the ships. A merchant marine owned at home is not essential to an extensive foreign commerce. In fact, it may be cheaper to hire other nations to handle the carrying trade than to participate in it directly. On the other hand, there are certain advantages, particularly during time of war, which may warrant an aggressive government encouragement to the maintenance of a merchant marine.

Title: List of megaprojects
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_megaprojects
Excerpt: This is a list of megaprojects, which may be defined as projects that cost more than US$1 billion and attract a large amount of public attention because of their effects on communities, the natural and built environment, and budgets; or more simply "initiatives that are physical, very expensive, and public".
Megaprojects can be found in many fields of human endeavor, including bridges, tunnels, highways, railways, hospitals, airports, seaports, power plants, dams, wastewater projects, Special Economic Zones (SEZ), oil and natural gas extraction projects, public buildings, information technology systems, aerospace projects, and military weapons.  The following lists are far from comprehensive.