Title: Lithium-ion battery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithium-ion_battery
Excerpt: A lithium-ion battery or Li-ion battery is a type of rechargeable battery that uses the reversible intercalation of lithium ions (Li+) into electronically conducting solids to store energy. There are many different varieties, which are usually categorized by the materials used in the cathode. Compared to other rechargeable battery types, they generally have higher specific energy, energy density, and energy efficiency and a longer cycle life and calendar life. In the three decades since Li-ion batteries were first sold in 1991, their volumetric energy density increased threefold while their cost dropped tenfold. In late 2024, global demand passed 1 terawatt-hour per year, while production capacity was more than twice that.
The invention and commercialization of Li-ion batteries has had a large impact on technology, as recognized by the 2019 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, which was awarded to contributors to the development of Li-ion batteries. Li-ion batteries have enabled portable consumer electronics, laptop computers, cellular phones, and electric cars. They are used for grid-scale energy storage and in military and aerospace applications. Li-ion battery sizes are generally not standardised (e.g. in the spirit of the AA battery) and they come in various and unique form factors depending on device and vendor. They typically have a nominal voltage of 3.6 or 3.7 V.
M. Stanley Whittingham conceived intercalation electrodes in the 1970s and created the first rechargeable lithium-ion battery, based on a titanium disulfide cathode and a lithium-aluminium anode, although it suffered from safety problems and was never commercialized. John Goodenough expanded on this work in 1980 by using lithium cobalt oxide as a cathode. The first prototype of the modern Li-ion battery, which uses a carbonaceous anode rather than lithium metal, was developed by Akira Yoshino in 1985 and commercialized by a Sony and Asahi Kasei team led by Yoshio Nishi in 1991. Whittingham, Goodenough, and Yoshino were awarded the 2019 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their contributions to the development of lithium-ion batteries.
Lithium-ion batteries can be a fire or explosion hazard as they contain flammable electrolytes. Progress has been made in the development and manufacturing of safer lithium-ion batteries. Lithium-ion solid-state batteries are being developed to eliminate the flammable electrolyte. Lithium and other minerals can have significant issues in mining, with lithium being water intensive in often arid regions and other minerals used in some Li-ion chemistries potentially being conflict minerals such as cobalt. Environmental issues have encouraged some researchers to improve mineral efficiency and find alternatives such as lithium iron phosphate lithium-ion chemistries or non-lithium-based battery chemistries such as sodium-ion and iron-air batteries.
Lithium-ion cells can be manufactured to optimize energy density or power density. Handheld electronics mostly use lithium polymer batteries (with a polymer gel as an electrolyte), a lithium cobalt oxide (LiCoO2) cathode material, and a graphite anode, which together offer high energy density. Lithium iron phosphate (LiFePO4), lithium manganese oxide (LiMn2O4 spinel, or Li2MnO3-based lithium-rich layered materials, LMR-NMC), and lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide (LiNiMnCoO2 or NMC) may offer longer life and a higher discharge rate. NMC and its derivatives are widely used in the electrification of transport, one of the main technologies (combined with renewable energy) for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles. Lithium nickel cobalt aluminum oxide (NCA) is another high-energy lithium-ion chemistry commonly used in electric vehicle batteries.

Title: Lithium metal battery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithium_metal_battery
Excerpt: Lithium metal batteries are nonrechargeable primary batteries that have metallic lithium as an anode. The name refers to the metal to distinguish them from rechargeable lithium-ion batteries, which use lithiated metal oxides as the cathode material. Although most lithium metal batteries are non-rechargeable, rechargeable lithium metal batteries are also under development. Since 2007, Dangerous Goods Regulations differentiate between lithium metal batteries (UN 3090) and lithium-ion batteries (UN 3480).
They stand apart from other batteries in their high charge density and high cost per unit. Depending on the design and chemical compounds used, lithium cells can produce voltages from 1.5 V (comparable to a zinc–carbon or alkaline battery) to about 3.7 V.
Disposable primary lithium batteries must be distinguished from secondary lithium-ion or a lithium-polymer, which are rechargeable batteries and contain no metallic lithium. Lithium metal batteries, by contrast, are defined by the use of metallic lithium as the anode. Pure lithium will instantly react with water, or even moisture in the air;  the lithium in lithium-ion batteries is a less reactive compound.
Lithium batteries are widely used in portable consumer electronic devices. The term "lithium battery" refers to a family of different lithium-metal chemistries, comprising many types of cathodes and electrolytes but all with metallic lithium as the anode. The battery requires from 0.15 to 0.3 kg (5 to 10 oz) of lithium per kWh. As designed these primary systems use a charged cathode, that being an electro-active material with crystallographic vacancies that are filled gradually during discharge.

The most common type of lithium cell used in consumer applications uses metallic lithium as the anode and manganese dioxide as the cathode, with a salt of lithium dissolved in an organic solvent as the electrolyte.

Title: Electric battery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_battery
Excerpt: An electric battery is a source of electric power consisting of one or more electrochemical cells with external connections for powering electrical devices. When a battery is supplying power, its positive terminal is the cathode and its negative terminal is the anode. The terminal marked negative is the source of electrons. When a battery is connected to an external electric load, those negatively charged electrons flow through the circuit and reach  the positive terminal, thus causing a redox reaction by attracting positively charged ions, or cations. Thus, higher energy reactants are converted to lower energy products, and the free-energy difference is delivered to the external circuit as electrical energy. Historically the term "battery" specifically referred to a device composed of multiple cells; however, the usage has evolved to include devices composed of a single cell.
Primary (single-use or "disposable") batteries are used once and discarded, as the electrode materials are irreversibly changed during discharge; a common example is the alkaline battery used for flashlights and a multitude of portable electronic devices. Secondary (rechargeable) batteries can be discharged and recharged multiple times using an applied electric current; the original composition of the electrodes can be restored by reverse current. Examples include the lead–acid automotive battery  used in internal combustion engine vehicles,  and lithium-ion batteries used for portable electronics  and electric cars.
Batteries come in many shapes and sizes, from miniature cells used to power hearing aids and wristwatches to, at the largest extreme, huge battery banks the size of rooms that provide standby or emergency power for telephone exchanges and computer data centers. Batteries have much lower specific energy (energy per unit mass) than common fuels such as gasoline. In automobiles, this is somewhat offset by the higher efficiency of electric motors in converting electrical energy to mechanical work, compared to combustion engines.

Title: Solid-state battery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid-state_battery
Excerpt: A solid-state battery (SSB) is an electrical battery that uses a solid electrolyte to conduct ions between the electrodes, instead of the liquid or gel polymer electrolytes found in conventional batteries. Theoretically, solid-state batteries offer much higher energy density than the typical lithium-ion or lithium polymer batteries.
While solid electrolytes were first discovered in the 19th century, several problems prevented widespread application. Developments in the late 20th and early 21st century generated renewed interest in the technology, especially in the context of electric vehicles. As of 2026, the solid-state battery market has yet to reach scalability and commercialization.
Solid-state batteries can use metallic lithium for the anode and oxides or sulfides for the cathode, thereby enhancing energy density. The solid electrolyte acts as an ideal separator that allows only lithium ions to pass through. For that reason, solid-state batteries can potentially solve many problems of currently used liquid electrolyte Li-ion batteries, including flammability, limited voltage, unstable solid-electrolyte interface formation, poor cycling performance, and strength.
Materials proposed for use as electrolytes include ceramics (e.g., oxides, sulfides, phosphates), and solid polymers. Solid-state batteries are found in pacemakers and in RFID and wearable devices. These batteries offer enhanced safety and higher energy densities. Challenges to widespread adoption include energy and power density, durability, material costs, sensitivity, and stability.

Title: Sodium-ion battery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sodium-ion_battery
Excerpt: A sodium-ion battery (NIB, SIB, or Na-ion battery) is a rechargeable battery that uses sodium ions (Na+) as charge carriers. In some cases, its working principle and cell construction are similar to those of lithium-ion battery (LIB) types, but different in that the battery is manufactured with sodium instead of lithium as the intercalating ion. Sodium belongs to the same group in the periodic table as lithium and thus has similar chemical properties; the term 'SIB' likewise describes a family of different chemistries. However, designs such as aqueous batteries are quite different from LIBs.

SIBs received academic and commercial interest in the 2010s and early 2020s, largely due to lithium's high cost, uneven geographic distribution, and environmentally damaging extraction process. Unlike lithium, sodium is abundant, particularly in saltwater. Further, cobalt, copper, and nickel are not required for many types of sodium-ion batteries as they are in Lithium batteries, and abundant iron-based materials (such as NaFeO2 with the 
  
    
      
        
          
            Fe
            
              3
            
            
              +
            
          
          
            /
          
          
            Fe
            
              4
            
            
              +
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\ce {Fe3+/Fe4+}}}
  
 redox pair) work well in 
  
    
      
        
          
            Na
            
              +
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\ce {Na+}}}
  
 batteries. This is because the ionic radius of Na+ (116 pm) is substantially larger than that of Fe2+ and Fe3+ (69–92 pm depending on the spin state), whereas the ionic radius of Li+ is similar (90 pm). Similar ionic radii of lithium and iron allow them to mix in the cathode during battery cycling, costing cyclable charge. A downside of the larger ionic radius of Na+ is slower intercalation kinetics.

The modern development of Na+ batteries for production started in the 1990s. Companies such as HiNa and CATL in China, Faradion in the United Kingdom, Tiamat in France, Northvolt in Sweden, and Natron Energy in the US, claimed to be close to commercialization, employing sodium layered transition metal oxides (NaxTMO2), Prussian white (a Prussian blue analogue) or vanadium phosphate as cathode materials.
Sodium-ion accumulators are operational for fixed electrical grid storage, and vehicles with sodium-ion battery packs are commercially available for light scooters made by Yadea, which use HuaYu sodium-ion battery technology.