Title: James Webb Space Telescope
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Webb_Space_Telescope
Excerpt: The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) is a space telescope designed to conduct infrared astronomy. It is the largest telescope in space, and is equipped with high-resolution and high-sensitivity instruments, allowing it to view objects too old, distant, or faint for the Hubble Space Telescope. This enables investigations across many fields of astronomy and cosmology, such as observation of the first stars and the formation of the first galaxies, and detailed atmospheric characterization of potentially habitable exoplanets.
Despite Webb's mirror diameter being 2.7 times larger than that of the Hubble Space Telescope, it produces images of comparable resolution because it observes in the infrared spectrum, which has longer wavelengths than the Hubble's visible spectrum. The longer the wavelength the telescope is designed to observe, the larger the information-gathering surface (mirrors in the infrared spectrum or antenna area in the millimeter and radio ranges) required to achieve the desired resolution.
The Webb was launched on 25 December 2021 on an Ariane 5 rocket from Kourou, French Guiana. In January 2022, it arrived at its destination, a solar orbit near the Sun–Earth L2 Lagrange point, about 1.5 million kilometers (930,000 mi) from Earth. The telescope's first image was released to the public on 11 July 2022.
The U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) led Webb's design and development and partnered with two central agencies: the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Canadian Space Agency (CSA). The NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland managed telescope development, while the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore on the Homewood Campus of Johns Hopkins University operates Webb. The primary contractor for the project was Northrop Grumman.
The telescope is named after James E. Webb, who was the administrator of NASA from 1961 to 1968 during the Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo programs.
Webb's primary mirror consists of 18 hexagonal mirror segments made of gold-plated beryllium, which together create a 6.5-meter-diameter (21 ft) mirror, compared with Hubble's 2.4 m (7 ft 10 in). This gives Webb a light-collecting area of about 25 m2 (270 sq ft), about six times that of Hubble. Unlike Hubble, which observes in the near ultraviolet, visible, and near infrared spectra (0.1–2.5 μm), Webb observes a lower frequency range, from long-wavelength visible light (red) through mid-infrared (0.6–28.5 μm). The telescope must be kept extremely cold, below 50 K (−223 °C; −370 °F), so that the infrared radiation emitted by the telescope itself does not interfere with the collected light. Its five-layer sunshield protects it from warming by the Sun, Earth, and Moon.
Initial designs for the telescope, then named the Next Generation Space Telescope, began in 1996. Two concept studies were commissioned in 1999, for a potential launch in 2007 and a US$1 billion budget. The program saw enormous cost overruns and delays. A significant redesign was carried out in 2005, with construction completed in 2016, followed by years of exhaustive testing, at a total cost of US$10 billion.

Title: NASA
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NASA
Excerpt: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA ) is an independent agency of the U.S. federal government responsible for the United States' civil space program, as well as research in aeronautics and space. Headquartered in Washington, D.C., NASA operates ten field centers across the US and is organized into three mission directorates: Human Spaceflight, Research and Technology, and Science. Established in 1958 amid the Space Race, NASA succeeded the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) to give the US space program a distinct civilian orientation focused on peaceful applications. Since then, it has led most American spaceflight programs, including Project Mercury, Project Gemini, the Apollo program, Skylab, the Space Shuttle, the International Space Station (ISS), and the ongoing multi-national Artemis program.
NASA maintains extensive ground and communications infrastructure, including the Deep Space Network and the Near Earth Network. Its science programs focus on Earth observation through the Earth Observing System, heliophysics research, Solar System exploration with robotic missions such as New Horizons and the Perseverance rover, and astrophysics investigations using space-based observatories including the James Webb Space Telescope and the Hubble Space Telescope. The Launch Services Program oversees operations for uncrewed launches.
The agency supports the ISS through international partnerships and highly successful commercial initiatives, such as the Commercial Crew Program and Commercial Resupply Services. NASA also leads the development of the Orion spacecraft and the Space Launch System rocket for the Artemis program. NASA collaborates globally with organizations including the European Space Agency (ESA), the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA), the Canadian Space Agency (CSA), and Russia's Roscosmos (for ISS operations), as well as domestically with US agencies such as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the United States Geological Survey, and the United States Space Force. NASA's missions and media initiatives, including the NASA+ streaming service, contribute significantly to its public visibility and outreach. The agency has also maintained a lasting influence on popular culture since the historic Apollo 11 Moon landing in 1969. For fiscal year 2026, NASA was authorized a budget of $24.4 billion and employs approximately 18,400 civil servants; since December 2025, its administrator has been Jared Isaacman.

Title: Space Launch System
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_Launch_System
Excerpt: The Space Launch System (SLS) is an American two-stage super heavy-lift expendable launch vehicle used by NASA. The primary launch vehicle for the Artemis program, SLS is designed to launch the four-person Orion spacecraft. The rocket first launched in November 2022, carrying the uncrewed Artemis I mission. Its only crewed launch has been for the Artemis II lunar flyby in April 2026, becoming the second launch vehicle to carry humans beyond low Earth orbit (LEO), after NASA's Saturn V of the Apollo program.
Development of SLS began in 2011 as a congressionally mandated replacement for the retiring Space Shuttle program and the cancelled Ares I and Ares V launch vehicles of the Constellation program, incorporating some hardware from both programs. Costing US$31.6 billion as of 2025, the project has been criticized for mismanagement, budget overruns, and delays, but ultimately succeeded in human spaceflight in 2026.
All SLS launches take place from Launch Complex 39B at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. The new Boeing-built core stage is powered by four ex-Shuttle RS-25 engines. Attached to the core are two Northrop Grumman five-segment Solid Rocket Boosters, built for the Ares vehicles, tested on Ares I-X, developed from the Shuttle's four-segment SRB. SLS currently uses the Interim Cryogenic Propulsion Stage (ICPS) as its second stage, for the insertions to low Earth orbit and trans-lunar injection. ICPS uses the RL10 engine, and was derived from the Delta Cryogenic Second Stage designed by Japan's space agency. Aerojet Rocketdyne builds the RS-25 and RL10 engines.
Starting from Artemis V, no earlier than late 2028, SLS will use the Centaur V upper stage, developed for the Vulcan Centaur, instead of ICPS. NASA previously planned to upgrade SLS from its current Block 1 configuration to a Block 1B and Block 2, but cancelled these plans in February 2026, aiming to standardize on Block 1, to "reduce risk and maintain schedule stability". Block 1B was to use the Exploration Upper Stage, and Block 2 would have used new solid rocket boosters.
While SLS has the highest liftoff thrust of any rocket to ever carry humans, 39 meganewtons (8,800,000 pounds-force), SLS's payload capacity to trans-lunar injection of 27 metric tons (59,525 lb) is only around half that of the Saturn V's 48.6 metric tons (107,145 lb) payload. Thus for Artemis lunar landings, beginning with Artemis IV targeted early 2028, Orion is planned to dock with the Human Landing System (HLS) in lunar orbit or low Earth orbit, separately launched on a non-SLS rocket; SpaceX's Starship HLS and Blue Origin's Blue Moon are under development as HLS vehicles.
Its next scheduled flight is Artemis III, a 2027 low Earth orbit docking test between Orion and HLS vehicles. Beginning with Artemis V, NASA will transfer SLS operations to the Deep Space Transport LLC, a commercial launch provider consortium of Boeing and Northrop Grumman.

Title: Starlink
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Starlink
Excerpt: Starlink Services, LLC is a telecommunications subsidiary of the American spaceflight company SpaceX, providing broadband Internet service in approximately 160 countries and territories. It also aims to provide global mobile broadband. SpaceX began launching Starlink satellites in 2019. As of June 2026, the network consisted of approximately 10,413 satellites (10,397 operational) in low Earth orbit (LEO) that communicate with user terminals and gateway ground stations connecting the constellation to terrestrial internet infrastructure. Starlink also provides in-flight internet access for numerous airlines. Starlink accounts for approximately 75% of all active maneuverable satellites in Earth orbit and had more than 12 million subscribers as of June 2026.
In May 2018, SpaceX estimated the cost of designing, building, and deploying the constellation to be at least US$10 billion. By the end of 2025, Starlink had become SpaceX's largest business segment, generating $11.4 billion in revenue and $4.4 billion in operating income.
In addition to civilian broadband service, Starlink is also used for government and military communications, including notably in the Russo-Ukrainian war. Its large satellite constellation has prompted discussion regarding its effects on astronomy and orbital congestion.

Title: SpaceX Starship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SpaceX_Starship
Excerpt: Starship is a two-stage, fully reusable, super heavy-lift launch vehicle under development by American aerospace company SpaceX. Currently built and launched from Starbase in Texas, it is intended as the successor to the company's Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy rockets, and is part of SpaceX's broader reusable launch system development program. If completed as designed, Starship would be the first fully reusable orbital rocket and have the highest payload capacity of any launch vehicle to date. As of July 24, 2026, Starship has launched 13 times, with 8 successful flights and 5 failures.
The vehicle consists of two stages: the Super Heavy booster and the Starship spacecraft, both powered by Raptor engines burning liquid methane (the main component of natural gas) and liquid oxygen. Both stages are intended to return to the launch site and land vertically at the launch tower for potential reuse. Once in space, the Starship upper stage is intended to function as a standalone spacecraft capable of carrying crew and cargo. Missions beyond low Earth orbit would require multiple in-orbit refueling flights. At the end of its mission, Starship reenters the atmosphere using heat shield tiles similar to those of the Space Shuttle. SpaceX states that its goal is to reduce launch costs by reusing and mass producing both stages.
SpaceX initially expressed ambitions to use Starship for crewed missions to Mars, but the plan was revised to prioritize returning humans to the Moon. SpaceX has also proposed a wide range of missions for Starship, such as deploying large satellites, space station modules, and space telescopes. A crewed variant, the Starship Human Landing System, is being developed under a contract with NASA as part of the Artemis program, with a docking test as part of Artemis III, currently scheduled for 2027, and a crewed lunar landing scheduled for 2028. 
SpaceX began developing concepts for a super heavy-lift reusable launch vehicle as early as 2005. Starship's current design and name were introduced in 2018. Development has followed an iterative and incremental approach, involving a high number of prototype vehicles and test flights. The first full Starship rocket was launched April 20, 2023, exploding four minutes after liftoff. The program has failed to meet many of its optimistic schedule goals, with several setbacks in development, including the failure of the first four Block 2 upper stages in 2025.