Title: Apollo 13
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apollo_13
Excerpt: Apollo 13 (April 11–17, 1970) was the seventh crewed mission in the Apollo space program and would have been the third Moon landing. The craft was launched from Kennedy Space Center on April 11, 1970, but the landing was aborted after an oxygen tank in the service module (SM) exploded two days into the mission, disabling its electrical and life-support system. The crew, supported by backup systems on the Apollo Lunar Module, instead looped around the Moon in a circumlunar trajectory and returned safely to Earth on April 17. The mission was commanded by Jim Lovell, with Jack Swigert as command module (CM) pilot and Fred Haise as Lunar Module (LM) pilot. Swigert was a late replacement for Ken Mattingly, who was grounded after exposure to rubella.
A routine stir of an oxygen tank ignited damaged wire insulation inside it, causing an explosion that vented the contents of both of the SM's oxygen tanks to space. Without oxygen, needed for breathing and for generating electrical power, the SM's propulsion and life support systems could not operate. The CM's systems had to be shut down to conserve its remaining resources for reentry, forcing the crew to transfer to the LM as a lifeboat. With the lunar landing canceled, mission controllers worked to bring the crew home alive.
Although the LM was designed to support two men on the lunar surface for two days, Mission Control in Houston improvised new procedures so it could support three men for four days. The crew experienced great hardship, caused by limited power, a chilly and wet cabin and a shortage of drinking water. There was a critical need to adapt the CM's cartridges for the carbon dioxide scrubber system to work in the LM; the crew and mission controllers were successful in improvising a solution. The astronauts' peril briefly renewed public interest in the Apollo program; tens of millions watched the splashdown in the South Pacific Ocean on television.
An investigative review board found fault with preflight testing of the oxygen tank and Teflon being placed inside it. The board recommended changes, including minimizing the use of potentially combustible items inside the tank; this was done for Apollo 14. The story of Apollo 13 has been dramatized several times, most notably in the 1995 film Apollo 13 (based on Lost Moon, the 1994 memoir co-authored by Lovell) and an episode of the 1998 miniseries From the Earth to the Moon.

Title: Apollo 7
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apollo_7
Excerpt: Apollo 7 (October 11–22, 1968) was the first crewed flight in NASA's Apollo program, and saw the resumption of human spaceflight by the agency after the fire that killed the three Apollo 1 astronauts during a launch rehearsal test on January 27, 1967. The Apollo 7 crew was commanded by Walter M. Schirra, with Command Module Pilot Donn F. Eisele and Lunar Module pilot R. Walter Cunningham (so designated even though Apollo 7 did not carry a Lunar Module).
The three astronauts were originally designated for the second crewed Apollo flight, and then as backups for Apollo 1. After the Apollo 1 fire, crewed flights were suspended while the cause of the accident was investigated and improvements made to the spacecraft and safety procedures, and uncrewed test flights made. Determined to prevent a repetition of the fire, the crew spent long periods monitoring the construction of their Apollo command and service modules (CSM). Training continued over much of the 21-month pause that followed the Apollo 1 disaster.
Apollo 7 was launched on October 11, 1968, from Cape Kennedy Air Force Station, Florida, and splashed down in the Atlantic Ocean eleven days later. Extensive testing of the CSM took place, and also the first live television broadcast from an American spacecraft. Despite tension between the crew and ground controllers, the mission was a complete technical success, giving NASA the confidence to send Apollo 8 into orbit around the Moon two months later. In part because of these tensions, none of the crew flew in space again, though Schirra had already announced he would retire from NASA after the flight. Apollo 7 fulfilled Apollo 1's mission of testing the CSM in low Earth orbit, and was a significant step towards NASA's goal of landing astronauts on the Moon.

Title: N1 (rocket)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N1_(rocket)
Excerpt: The N1 (from Ракета-носитель Raketa-nositel', "Carrier Rocket"; Cyrillic: Н1, GRAU index: 11A52, Sheldon: G-1-e, DoD: SL-15) was a super heavy-lift launch vehicle of the Soviet space program intended for crewed travel to the Moon and beyond. All four launch attempts between 1969 and 1972 failed. Studied and designed by OKB-1 since 1959, it was the counterpart to the US Saturn V.  
A five-stage kerolox-fuelled rocket, its Block A was the most powerful rocket stage flown for over 50 years, at 45 meganewtons of thrust, until the SpaceX Super Heavy. Block A's large cluster of thirty NK-15 engines, prone to individual failures, was managed by KORD, an analog computer which shut down engines opposite the failure, to maintain attitude control. Block B and V used eight and four hot staged engines respectively, planned to bring the rocket to low Earth orbit. Dangers of the complex engine cluster and fuel feeder systems were not discovered earlier as static fires were not conducted on the Block A. Its second test flight resulted in one of the largest conventional explosions ever, that disabled its Site 110 launch pad at Baikonur Cosmodrome for 18 months. 
The N1-L3 aimed to compete with the US Apollo program for a crewed Moon landing, using a similar lunar orbit rendezvous method. The rocket had three stages, carrying the L3 lunar payload into low Earth orbit with two cosmonauts. The L3 contained the Block G trans-lunar injection stage; Block D for mid-course corrections, lunar orbit insertion, and initial surface descent; single-pilot LK lander; and two-pilot Soyuz 7K-LOK orbital spacecraft for return to Earth.
The N1 started development in October 1965, almost four years after the Saturn V. The project was derailed by the death of its chief designer Sergei Korolev in 1966; the program was suspended in 1974 and canceled in 1976. The TMK project of crewed Mars and Venus flybys also relied on the N1. OKB-1 later developed Energia, the only Soviet super-heavy lift rocket to reach orbit, flying in 1987 and 1988. Details of the Soviet crewed lunar programs were kept secret until the USSR was nearing collapse in 1989. From 2013, the NK-33 engines, built for the N1F improvement cancelled in 1974, were adapted to the smaller US Orbital Sciences Antares 100 rockets and Russian Soyuz 2.1v rockets.

Title: Vehicular automation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vehicular_automation
Excerpt: Vehicular automation is using technology to assist or replace the operator of a vehicle such as a car, truck, aircraft, rocket, military vehicle, or boat. Assisted vehicles are semi-autonomous, whereas vehicles that can travel without a human operator are autonomous. The degree of autonomy may be subject to various constraints such as conditions. Autonomy is enabled by advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS) of varying capacity.
Related technology includes advanced software, maps, vehicle changes, and outside vehicle support.  The benefits of viewing automated driving from a sociotechnical systems perspective has been discussed.
Autonomy presents varying issues for road, air, and marine travel. Roads present the most significant complexity given the unpredictability of the driving environment, including diverse road designs, driving conditions, traffic, obstacles, and geographical/cultural differences.
Autonomy implies that the vehicle is responsible for all perception, monitoring, and control functions.

Title: Space Launch System
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_Launch_System
Excerpt: The Space Launch System (SLS) is an American two-stage super heavy-lift expendable launch vehicle used by NASA. The primary launch vehicle for the Artemis program, SLS is designed to launch the four-person Orion spacecraft. The rocket first launched in November 2022, carrying the uncrewed Artemis I mission. Its only crewed launch has been for the Artemis II lunar flyby in April 2026, becoming the second launch vehicle to carry humans beyond low Earth orbit (LEO), after NASA's Saturn V of the Apollo program.
Development of SLS began in 2011 as a congressionally mandated replacement for the retiring Space Shuttle program and the cancelled Ares I and Ares V launch vehicles of the Constellation program, incorporating some hardware from both programs. Costing US$31.6 billion as of 2025, the project has been criticized for mismanagement, budget overruns, and delays, but ultimately succeeded in human spaceflight in 2026.
All SLS launches take place from Launch Complex 39B at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. The new Boeing-built core stage is powered by four ex-Shuttle RS-25 engines. Attached to the core are two Northrop Grumman five-segment Solid Rocket Boosters, built for the Ares vehicles, tested on Ares I-X, developed from the Shuttle's four-segment SRB. SLS currently uses the Interim Cryogenic Propulsion Stage (ICPS) as its second stage, for the insertions to low Earth orbit and trans-lunar injection. ICPS uses the RL10 engine, and was derived from the Delta Cryogenic Second Stage designed by Japan's space agency. Aerojet Rocketdyne builds the RS-25 and RL10 engines.
Starting from Artemis V, no earlier than late 2028, SLS will use the Centaur V upper stage, developed for the Vulcan Centaur, instead of ICPS. NASA previously planned to upgrade SLS from its current Block 1 configuration to a Block 1B and Block 2, but cancelled these plans in February 2026, aiming to standardize on Block 1, to "reduce risk and maintain schedule stability". Block 1B was to use the Exploration Upper Stage, and Block 2 would have used new solid rocket boosters.
While SLS has the highest liftoff thrust of any rocket to ever carry humans, 39 meganewtons (8,800,000 pounds-force), SLS's payload capacity to trans-lunar injection of 27 metric tons (59,525 lb) is only around half that of the Saturn V's 48.6 metric tons (107,145 lb) payload. Thus for Artemis lunar landings, beginning with Artemis IV targeted early 2028, Orion is planned to dock with the Human Landing System (HLS) in lunar orbit or low Earth orbit, separately launched on a non-SLS rocket; SpaceX's Starship HLS and Blue Origin's Blue Moon are under development as HLS vehicles.
Its next scheduled flight is Artemis III, a 2027 low Earth orbit docking test between Orion and HLS vehicles. Beginning with Artemis V, NASA will transfer SLS operations to the Deep Space Transport LLC, a commercial launch provider consortium of Boeing and Northrop Grumman.