Title: Malaria
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malaria
Excerpt: Malaria is a mosquito-borne infectious disease that is transmitted by the bite of Anopheles mosquitoes. The symptoms of human malaria typically include fever, fatigue, vomiting, and headaches. In severe cases, the disease can cause jaundice, seizures, coma, or death. Symptoms usually begin 10 to 15 days after being bitten by an infected Anopheles mosquito. If not properly treated, people may have recurrences of the disease months later. Those who survive an infection develop partial immunity, being susceptible to reinfection although with milder symptoms. This partial resistance disappears over months to years if the person has no continuing exposure to malaria.
Malaria is caused by single-celled parasites of the genus Plasmodium, generally spread through the bites of an infected female Anopheles mosquito. The mosquito bite introduces the parasites from the mosquito's saliva into the blood. The parasites initially reproduce and mature in the liver without causing symptoms. After a few days the mature parasites spread into the bloodstream, where they infect and destroy red blood cells, causing the symptoms of infection. Five species of Plasmodium commonly infect humans. The three species associated with more severe cases are P. falciparum (which is responsible for the vast majority of malaria deaths), P. vivax and P. knowlesi (a simian malaria that spills over into thousands of people a year). P. ovale and P. malariae generally cause a milder form of malaria. Malaria is typically diagnosed by the microscopic examination of blood using blood films, or with antigen-based rapid diagnostic tests. Methods that use the polymerase chain reaction to detect the parasite's DNA have been developed, but they are not widely used in areas where malaria is common, due to their cost and complexity.
The risk of disease can be reduced by preventing mosquito bites through the use of mosquito nets and insect repellents or with mosquito-control measures such as spraying insecticides and draining standing water. Several prophylactic medications are available to prevent malaria in areas where the disease is common. As of 2023, two malaria vaccines have been endorsed by the World Health Organization. The parasites have evolved resistance to several antimalarial medications; for example, chloroquine-resistant P. falciparum has spread to most malaria-prone areas, and resistance to artemisinin has become a problem in some parts of Southeast Asia. Because of this, drug treatment for malaria infection should be tailored to best fit the Plasmodium species involved and the geographical location where the infection was acquired. 
The disease is widespread in the tropical and subtropical regions that exist in a broad band around the equator. This includes much of sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, and Latin America. In 2024, some 282 million cases of malaria worldwide resulted in an estimated 610,000 deaths. Around 95% of the cases and deaths occurred in sub-Saharan Africa. Malaria is commonly associated with poverty and has a significant negative effect on economic development; in 2005 it was estimated that Africa loses US$12 billion a year due to increased healthcare costs, lost ability to work, and adverse effects on tourism.

Title: Panama Canal expansion project
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panama_Canal_expansion_project
Excerpt: The Panama Canal expansion project (Spanish: ampliación del Canal de Panamá), also called the Third Set of Locks Project, doubled the capacity of the Panama Canal by adding a new traffic lane, enabling more ships to transit the waterway, and increasing the width and depth of the lanes and locks, allowing larger ships to pass. The new ships, called New Panamax, are about one and a half times larger than the previous Panamax size and can carry over twice as much cargo. The expanded canal began commercial operation on 26 June 2016.
The project has:

Built two new sets of locks, one each on the Atlantic and Pacific sides, and excavated new channels to the new locks
Widened and deepened existing channels
Raised the maximum operating water level of Gatun Lake
Then-Panamanian President Martín Torrijos formally proposed the project on 24 April 2006, saying it would transform Panama into a First World country. A national referendum approved the proposal by a 76.8 percent majority on 22 October the same year, and the Cabinet and National Assembly followed suit. The project formally began in 2007.
It was initially announced that the canal expansion would be completed by August 2014 to coincide with the 100th anniversary of the opening of the Panama Canal, but various setbacks, including strikes and disputes with the construction consortium over cost overruns, pushed the completion date back several times. Following additional difficulties including seepage from the new locks, the expansion was opened on 26 June 2016. The expansion doubled the canal's capacity. On 2 March 2018, the Panama Canal Authority announced that 3,000 New Panamax ships had crossed the canal expansion during its first 20 months of operation.

Title: Marco Rubio
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marco_Rubio
Excerpt: Marco Antonio Rubio ( ROO-bee-oh; born May 28, 1971) is an American politician, attorney, and diplomat serving as the 72nd United States secretary of state since 2025. He is also the acting national security advisor. A member of the Republican Party, Rubio represented Florida in the United States Senate from 2011 to 2025.
Rubio was born and raised in Miami. He attended the University of Florida and the University of Miami's law school. After serving as a city commissioner for West Miami in the 1990s, he was elected in 2000 to represent the 111th district in the Florida House of Representatives. As the Republican majority leader, he was subsequently elected Speaker of the Florida House; he served for two years beginning in November 2006. Rubio left the Florida legislature in 2008 due to term limits, and began teaching at Florida International University. In a three-way race, Rubio was elected to the U.S. Senate in 2010. In April 2015, he launched a presidential bid instead of seeking reelection. He suspended his campaign for the presidency on March 15, 2016, after losing to Donald Trump in the Florida Republican primary. He then ran for reelection to the Senate and won a second term. Despite his criticism of Trump during his presidential campaign, Rubio endorsed him before the 2016 general election and was largely supportive of his presidency.
Due to his influence on U.S. policy on Latin America during the first Trump administration, he was described as a "virtual secretary of state for Latin America". He was also considered to have been one of Congress's most hawkish members with regard to China and the Chinese Communist Party. The Chinese government sanctioned him twice in 2020 and he was banned from entering China until he became Secretary of State. Rubio became Florida's senior senator in January 2019, following the defeat of former senator Bill Nelson, and was reelected to a third term in 2022, defeating Democratic nominee Val Demings in a landslide victory. Rubio endorsed Trump for president in 2024 days before the Iowa caucuses.
In November 2024, President-elect Trump announced his intention to nominate Rubio to be secretary of state in his second administration. Rubio was confirmed unanimously by the U.S. Senate and took office on January 21, 2025. On May 1, 2025, Trump announced that Rubio would become acting national security advisor, replacing Mike Waltz, while continuing to serve as secretary of state. This dual role was last held by Henry Kissinger from 1973 to 1975 (serving a combined tenure in one or both positions from 1969 to 1977) in the Nixon and Ford administrations. In February 2025, Rubio also became the acting archivist of the United States and the acting USAID administrator, holding these roles until February 2026 and August 2025, respectively. He is the first Latino to serve as secretary of state or act as national security advisor, making him the highest-ranking Hispanic American official in U.S. history.

Title: BNY
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BNY
Excerpt: The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, commonly known as BNY or by its prior brand name BNY Mellon, is an American international financial services company headquartered in New York City with major offices also in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
BNY was established in its current form in July 2007 by the merger of the Bank of New York and Mellon Financial Corporation.  The company provides a wide range of financial services, including asset management, custody and securities services, government finance services, and pension plan management. BNY serves diverse clients, including corporations, institutions, and individuals, offering financial expertise and technological platforms to support their objectives. The company's key subsidiaries include BNY Investments, BNY Pershing, and BNY Wealth. It is the world's largest custodian bank and securities services company. 
Through the lineage of Bank of New York, which was founded in 1784 by a group that included Alexander Hamilton, BNY is regarded as one of the three oldest banks in the United States and among the oldest in the world. It was the first company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. In 2024, it was ranked 130th on the Fortune 500 list of the largest U.S. corporations by total revenue, and a 2018 Fortune analysis identified it as the oldest company on the list. As of 2026, it was the 10th-largest bank in the United States by total assets and the 83rd-largest in the world. BNY is considered a systemically important financial institution by the Financial Stability Board.
As of September 2024, BNY had $2.1 trillion in assets under management and $52.1 trillion in assets under custody and administration, making it the first bank to surpass $50 trillion. BNY has been named among Fortune's World's Most Admired Companies.

Title: Second presidency of Donald Trump
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_presidency_of_Donald_Trump
Excerpt: Donald Trump's second and current tenure as the president of the United States began upon his inauguration as the 47th president on January 20, 2025. Trump, a Republican, previously served as the 45th president from 2017 to 2021. He lost re-election to Democratic nominee Joe Biden in 2020, and then won against Democratic nominee Kamala Harris in 2024. Trump is the second former U.S. president to return to office. Alongside Trump's second presidency, the Republican Party also currently holds simple majorities in the House of Representatives and the Senate, thereby attaining an overall federal government trifecta.
During 2025, Trump signed 225 executive orders, the most of any president in a single year since Franklin D. Roosevelt. Many of these have been or are being challenged in court. His attempts to expand presidential power and conflict with the courts have been described as a defining characteristic of his second presidency. On immigration, Trump signed the Laken Riley Act into law, attempted to restrict birthright citizenship, and ordered mass deportations of immigrants. In January 2025, Trump launched the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), with Elon Musk briefly overseeing it. DOGE was tasked with reducing federal spending and shrinking the size of the government, and it oversaw mass layoffs of civil servants, as well as closing government agencies such as the Agency for International Development. Trump also signed the One Big Beautiful Bill Act into law, which permanently extended the tax cuts introduced in the first Trump administration, while increasing the deficit by around $3 trillion by 2034. Trump has also overseen a series of tariff increases and pauses, which led to retaliatory tariffs from other countries and stock market volatility.
In international affairs, Trump has further pursued an expansionist and aggressive foreign policy, including the greater use of military force. His administration increased support for Israel in the Gaza war, struck Houthi targets in Yemen from March to May 2025 and aided Israel in the June 2025 Twelve-Day War, during which he carried out strikes on Iranian nuclear sites. In early October 2025, Trump's plan for a Gaza ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas was signed. Trump has authorized a series of strikes on suspected drug traffickers in the Caribbean Sea, the legality of which is widely disputed under both U.S. and international law, and subsequently ordered a military intervention to overthrow and capture Nicolás Maduro, the disputed president of Venezuela, alleging that the Maduro government had links to narco-terrorist networks and conspired to flood the United States with cocaine. In February 2026, he launched a major attack on Iran with Israel with the stated goal of regime change, including the assassination of the Supreme Leader of Iran Ali Khamenei, which led to the 2026 Strait of Hormuz crisis and fuel crisis. As in his first presidency, Trump initiated the withdrawal of the U.S. from the World Health Organization, the Paris Climate Accords, and UNESCO.
The Trump administration has been criticized for its targeting of political opponents and civil society. Many of his administration's actions have been found by the judiciary to be illegal and unconstitutional, and have been criticized as authoritarian and fascistic. These actions have also been seen as contributing to democratic backsliding in the country. Trump, his family, and his administration have faced unprecedented conflicts of interest, self-enrichment, and allegations of corruption. Trump is the first president with a felony conviction, having been convicted in 2024 for falsifying business records to conceal hush money payments. Having taken office at 78 years and seven months old, he is the oldest person to become U.S. president.