Title: Medication
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medication
Excerpt: Medication (also called medicament, medicine, pharmaceutical drug, medicinal product, medicinal drug, or simply drug) is a drug used to diagnose, cure, treat, or prevent disease. Drug therapy (pharmacotherapy) is an important part of the medical field and relies on the science of pharmacology for continual advancement and on pharmacy for appropriate management.
Drugs are classified in many ways. One of the key divisions is by level of control, which distinguishes prescription drugs (those that a pharmacist dispenses only on the medical prescription) from over-the-counter drugs (those that consumers can order for themselves). Medicines may be classified by mode of action, route of administration, biological system affected, or therapeutic effects. The World Health Organization keeps a list of essential medicines.
Drug discovery and drug development are complex and expensive endeavors undertaken by pharmaceutical companies, academic scientists, and governments. As a result of this complex path from discovery to commercialization, partnering has become a standard practice for advancing drug candidates through development pipelines. Governments generally regulate what drugs can be marketed, how drugs are marketed, and in some jurisdictions, drug pricing. Controversies have arisen over drug pricing and disposal of used medications.

Title: Ebola
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ebola
Excerpt: Ebola, also known as Ebola virus disease (EVD) and Ebola hemorrhagic fever (EHF), is a zoonotic viral hemorrhagic fever in humans and other primates, caused by four of the six known ebolaviruses. Symptoms typically start anywhere between two days and three weeks after infection. The first symptoms are usually fever, sore throat, muscle pain, and headaches. These are usually followed by vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, hepatic and renal dysfunction, at which point some people begin to bleed both internally and externally. Outbreaks of the disease have had a mortality rate of between 25 and 90%, averaging out at approximately 50%. The viral species involved and timing of treatment play a critical role in its prognosis. Death is often due to shock from fluid loss, and typically occurs between 6 and 16 days after the first symptoms appear.
The viruses have caused intermittent outbreaks in sub-Saharan Africa since 1976 when the disease was first reported, with the largest one being the 2013–16 Western African epidemic. They spread through direct contact with body fluids, such as blood from infected humans or other animals, or from contact with items that have recently been contaminated with infected body fluids. There have been no documented cases, either in nature or under laboratory conditions, of spread through the air between humans or other primates. After recovering from Ebola, semen or breast milk may continue to carry the virus for anywhere from several weeks to several months. Fruit bats are believed to be the natural host of the viruses; they are able to spread the viruses without being affected by it. The symptoms of Ebola may resemble those of several other diseases, including malaria, cholera, typhoid fever, meningitis and other viral hemorrhagic fevers. Diagnosis is confirmed by testing blood samples for the presence of viral RNA, viral antibodies or the virus itself.
Control of outbreaks requires coordinated medical services and community engagement, including rapid detection, contact tracing of those exposed, quick access to laboratory services, care for those infected, and proper disposal of the dead through cremation or burial. Prevention measures involve wearing proper protective clothing and washing hands when close to patients and while handling potentially infected bushmeat, as well as thoroughly cooking bushmeat. Two treatments (atoltivimab/maftivimab/odesivimab and ansuvimab) have been shown to improve outcomes. 
Early supportive care and treatment of symptoms increases the survival rate considerably compared to late start. These include oral rehydration therapy (drinking slightly sweetened and salty water) or giving intravenous fluids, and treating symptoms. An Ebola vaccine was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in December 2019. In October 2020, atoltivimab/maftivimab/odesivimab (Inmazeb) was approved for medical use in the United States to treat the disease caused by Zaire ebolavirus.

Title: Timeline of computing 2020–present
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_computing_2020%E2%80%93present
Excerpt: This article presents a detailed timeline of events in the history of computing from 2020 to the present. For narratives explaining the overall developments, see the history of computing.
Significant events in computing include events relating directly or indirectly to software, hardware and wetware.
Excluded (except in instances of significant functional overlap) are:

events in general robotics
events about uses of computational tools in biotechnology and similar fields (except for improvements to the underlying computational tools) as well as events in media-psychology except when those are directly linked to computational tools
Currently excluded are:

events in computer insecurity, hacking incidents, breaches/Internet conflicts, and malware if they are not also about milestones towards computer security
events about quantum computing and communication
economic events and events of new technology policy beyond standardization

Title: January–March 2023 in science
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/January%E2%80%93March_2023_in_science
Excerpt: This article lists a number of significant events in science that have occurred in the first quarter of 2023.

Title: 2025 in science
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025_in_science
Excerpt: The following scientific events occurred, or were scheduled to occur in 2025. The United Nations declared 2025 the International year of quantum science and technology.