Title: Piper Alpha
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piper_Alpha
Excerpt: Piper Alpha was an oil platform located in the North Sea about 120 miles (190 km) north-east of Aberdeen, Scotland. It was operated by Occidental Petroleum and began production in December 1976, initially as an oil-only platform, but later converted to add gas production.
Piper Alpha exploded and collapsed under the effect of sustained gas jet fires in the night between 6 and 7 July 1988, killing 165 of the men on board (30 of whose bodies were never recovered), as well as a further two rescuers. Sixty-one workers escaped and survived. The total insured loss was about £1.7 billion (equivalent to £4.6 billion in 2024), making it one of the costliest man-made catastrophes ever. At the time of the disaster, the platform accounted for roughly 10% of North Sea oil and gas production and was the world’s single largest oil producer. The accident is the worst ever offshore oil and gas disaster in terms of lives lost, and comparable only to the Deepwater Horizon disaster in terms of industry impact. The inquiry blamed it on inadequate maintenance and safety procedures by Occidental, though no charges were brought. A separate civil suit resulted in a finding of negligence against two workers who were killed in the accident.
A memorial sculpture is located in the Rose Garden of Hazlehead Park in Aberdeen.

Title: Texas City refinery explosion
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_City_refinery_explosion
Excerpt: On March 23, 2005, a hydrocarbon vapor cloud ignited and violently exploded at the isomerization process unit of the BP-owned oil refinery in Texas City, Texas. The explosion resulted in the death of 15 workers, 180 injuries and severe damage to the refinery. All the fatalities were contractors working out of temporary buildings located close to the unit to support turnaround activities. Property loss was $200 million ($330 million in 2025). When including settlements ($2.1 billion), costs of repairs, deferred production, and fines, the explosion is the world's costliest refinery accident. 
The explosive vapor cloud came from raffinate liquids overflowing from the top of a blowdown stack. The source of ignition was probably a running vehicle engine. The release of liquid followed the automatic opening of a set of relief valves on a raffinate splitter column caused by overfilling.
Subsequent investigation reports by BP, the U.S. Chemical Safety Board (CSB), and an independent blue-ribbon panel led by James Baker identified numerous technical and organizational failings at the refinery and within corporate BP.
The disaster had widespread consequences on both the company and the industry as a whole. The explosion was the first in a series of accidents (which culminated in the Deepwater Horizon oil spill) that seriously tarnished BP's reputation, especially in the U.S. The refinery was eventually sold as a result, together with other North American assets. In the meantime, the industry took action both through the issuance of new or updated standards and more radical regulatory oversight of refinery activities.

Title: Lisa P. Jackson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lisa_P._Jackson
Excerpt: Lisa Perez Jackson  (born February 8, 1962) is an American chemical engineer who served as the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from 2009 to 2013. She was the first African American to hold that position.
In 2002, Jackson joined the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection as the assistant commissioner of compliance and enforcement and assistant commissioner for land use management. New Jersey governor Jon Corzine appointed Jackson the state's commissioner of environmental protection in 2006. Jackson also briefly served as Corzine's chief of staff in late 2008.
On December 15, 2008, President-elect Barack Obama nominated Jackson to serve as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency; she was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on January 23, 2009, and took office that same day.  During her tenure as EPA administrator, Jackson oversaw the development of stricter fuel efficiency standards and the EPA's response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill; authorized the recognition of carbon dioxide as a public health threat, granting the EPA authority to set new regulation of greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act; and proposed amending the National Ambient Air Quality Standards to set stricter smog pollution limits. In December 2012, Jackson announced she would step down as EPA administrator effective February 15, 2013; she was succeeded by Deputy Administrator Bob Perciasepe, who served as acting administrator until the Senate confirmed Gina McCarthy as a permanent successor on July 18, 2013.

Title: BP
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BP
Excerpt: BP p.l.c. is a British multinational oil and gas company headquartered in London, England. It is one of the oil and gas "supermajors" and one of the world's largest companies measured by revenues and profits.
It is a vertically integrated company operating in all areas of the oil and gas industry, including exploration and extraction, refining, distribution and marketing, power generation, and trading.
BP's origins date back to the founding of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company in 1909, established as a subsidiary of the Burmah Oil Company to exploit oil discoveries in Iran. In 1935, it became the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company and in 1954, adopted the name British Petroleum.
BP acquired majority control of Standard Oil of Ohio in 1978. Formerly majority state-owned, the British government privatised the company in stages between 1979 and 1987. BP merged with Amoco in 1998, becoming BP Amoco p.l.c., and acquired ARCO, Burmah Castrol and Aral AG shortly thereafter. The company's name was shortened to BP p.l.c. in 2001.
As of 2024, BP had operations in 61 countries, produced around 2.4 million barrels per day (380,000 m3/d) of oil equivalent, and had total proven reserves of 6.25 billion barrels (994,000,000 m3) of oil equivalent. The company has around 21,200 service stations worldwide, which it operates under the BP brand (worldwide) and under the Amoco brand (in the U.S.) and the Aral brand (in Germany). Its largest division is BP America in the United States.
BP is the fifth-largest investor-owned oil company in the world by 2024 revenues (after ExxonMobil, Shell, Chevron and TotalEnergies). BP had a market capitalisation of US$98.36 billion as of 2022, placing it 122nd in the world, and its Fortune Global 500 rank was 33rd in 2024 with revenues of US$194.6 billion. The company's primary stock listing is on the London Stock Exchange, where it is a member of the FTSE 100 Index.
BP has been directly involved in several major environmental and safety incidents. Among them were the 2005 Texas City refinery explosion, which caused the death of 15 workers and which resulted in a record-setting OSHA fine; Britain's largest oil spill, the wreck of Torrey Canyon in 1967; and the 2006 Prudhoe Bay oil spill, the largest oil spill on Alaska's North Slope, which resulted in a US$25 million civil penalty, the largest per-barrel penalty at that time for an oil spill.
BP's worst environmental catastrophe was the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill, the largest accidental release of oil into marine waters in history, which leaked about 4.9 million barrels (210 million US gal; 780,000 m3) of oil, causing severe environmental, human health, and economic consequences and serious legal and public relations repercussions for BP, costing more than $4.5 billion in fines and penalties, and an additional $18.7 billion in Clean Water Act-related penalties and other claims, the largest criminal resolution in US history. Altogether, the oil spill cost the company more than $65 billion.

Title: Deepwater Horizon oil spill
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deepwater_Horizon_oil_spill
Excerpt: The Deepwater Horizon oil spill was an environmental disaster beginning 20 April 2010 off the coast of the United States in the Gulf of Mexico, on the BP-operated Macondo Prospect. It is considered the largest marine oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry and estimated to be 8 to 31 percent larger in volume than the previous largest, the Ixtoc I oil spill, also in the Gulf of Mexico. Caused in the aftermath of a blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil platform, the United States federal government estimated the total discharge at 4.9 million barrels (210,000,000 US gal; 780,000 m3). After several failed efforts to contain the flow, the well was declared sealed on 19 September 2010. Reports in early 2012 indicated that the well site was still leaking. The Deepwater Horizon oil spill is regarded as one of the largest environmental disasters in world history.
A massive response ensued to protect beaches, wetlands and estuaries from the spreading oil utilizing skimmer ships, floating booms, controlled burns and 1,840,000 US gal (7,000 m3) of oil dispersant. Due to the months-long spill, along with adverse effects from the response and cleanup activities, extensive damage to marine and wildlife habitats and fishing and tourism industries was reported. In Louisiana, oil cleanup crews worked four days a week on 55 mi (89 km) of Louisiana shoreline throughout 2013. 4,900,000 lb (2,200 t) of oily material was removed from the beaches in 2013, over double the amount collected in 2012. Oil continued to be found as far from the Macondo site as the waters off the Florida panhandle and Tampa Bay, where scientists said the oil and dispersant mixture is embedded in the sand.  In April 2013, it was reported that dolphins and other marine life continued to die in record numbers with infant dolphins dying at six times the normal rate. One study released in 2014 reported that tuna and amberjack exposed to oil from the spill developed deformities of the heart and other organs which would be expected to be fatal or at least life-shortening; another study found that cardiotoxicity might have been widespread in animal life exposed to the spill.
Numerous investigations examined the causes of the explosion and record-setting oil spill. A US government report, published in September 2011, identified defective cementing of the well as a major cause and assigned most responsibility to BP, while also faulting rig operator Transocean and contractor Halliburton. Earlier in 2011, a White House commission similarly blamed BP and its partners for cost-cutting decisions and inadequate safety systems. The commission also concluded that the disaster reflected systemic failures and warned that, without major reforms to industry practices and government policy, a similar event could occur again.
In November 2012, BP and the United States Department of Justice settled federal criminal charges, with BP pleading guilty to 11 counts of manslaughter, two misdemeanors, and a felony count of lying to the United States Congress. BP also agreed to four years of government monitoring of its safety practices and ethics, and the Environmental Protection Agency announced that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government. BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $4.525 billion in fines and other payments. In September 2014, a US district court judge ruled that BP was primarily responsible for the oil spill because of its gross negligence and reckless conduct. In April 2016, BP agreed to pay $20.8 billion in fines, the largest environmental damage settlement in US history. As of 2018, cleanup costs, charges and penalties had cost the company more than $65 billion.