Title: Physics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physics
Excerpt: Physics is the scientific study of matter, its fundamental constituents, its motion and behavior through space and time, and the related entities of energy and force. It is one of the most fundamental scientific disciplines. A scientist who specializes in the field of physics is called a physicist.
Physics is one of the oldest academic disciplines. Over much of the past two millennia, physics, chemistry, biology, and certain branches of mathematics were part of natural philosophy, but during the Scientific Revolution in the 17th century, these natural sciences branched into separate research endeavors. Physics intersects with many interdisciplinary areas of research, such as biophysics and quantum chemistry, and the boundaries of physics are not rigidly defined. New ideas in physics often explain the fundamental mechanisms studied by other sciences and suggest new avenues of research in these and other academic disciplines, such as mathematics and philosophy.
Advances in physics often enable new technologies. For example, advances in the understanding of electromagnetism, solid-state physics, and nuclear physics led directly to the development of technologies that have transformed modern society, such as television, computers, domestic appliances, and nuclear weapons; advances in thermodynamics led to the development of industrialization; and advances in mechanics inspired the development of calculus.

Title: Superconducting Super Collider
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superconducting_Super_Collider
Excerpt: The Superconducting Super Collider (SSC), nicknamed Desertron, was a particle accelerator complex under construction from 1991 to 1993 near Waxahachie, Texas, United States. Its planned ring circumference was 87.1 kilometers (54.1 mi) with an energy of 20 TeV per proton and was designed to be the world's largest and most energetic particle accelerator. The laboratory director was Roy Schwitters, a physicist at the University of Texas at Austin. Department of Energy administrator Louis Ianniello served as its first project director, followed by Joe Cipriano, who came to the SSC Project from the Pentagon in May 1990. After 22.5 km (14 mi) of tunnel had been bored and about US$2 billion spent, the project was canceled by the US Congress in 1993.

Title: Chronology of the universe
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronology_of_the_universe
Excerpt: The chronology of the universe describes the history and future of the universe according to the current understanding of physical cosmology. In this model, the earliest stage that is supported by observational evidence is known as inflation, which occurred 13.8 billion years ago. During this epoch, space underwent a period of extremely rapid expansion in a tiny fraction of a second. Once inflation ended, the energy that was responsible for it was converted into particles and radiation, heating up the universe into a very hot and dense state, initiating the Big Bang.
At some early stage, baryogenesis produced a small excess of matter over antimatter. Most matter and antimatter particles annihilated each other in pairs, leaving behind a small excess of matter and large amount of radiation. As the universe cooled further, many other heavy particles annihilated each other or decayed, eventually leaving behind a plasma that was dominated by protons, neutrons, electrons, photons, and neutrinos.
After the first second, the plasma became dilute enough so that neutrinos ceased interacting efficiently with the other particles and instead started free streaming through the universe, producing the primordial neutrino background. Five seconds later, electrons and positrons annihilated each other, transferring their energy into the rest of the plasma.
Within the first three minutes, the temperature became low enough to enable stable nuclei to start forming in a process known as Big Bang nucleosynthesis, resulting in hydrogen, helium, and a small amount of lithium. In most models of cosmology, dark matter is usually assumed to have been produced by this epoch, although its production mechanism is unknown. Around 380,000 years later, electrons were captured by the nucleons, forming stable atoms. With this, the universe became transparent to photons, producing the cosmic microwave background.
The next phase of the universe involved the gradual gravitational collapse of the atomic gas. As the gas was compressed and heated, it eventually ignited nuclear fusion, creating the first stars. Gravitational attraction over the subsequent millions of years formed galaxies and the larger structures visible today. After a further nine billion years, the universe transitioned from a matter-dominated universe into a dark energy–dominated universe, leading to the accelerated cosmic expansion that we see today.
Many modifications to the standard timeline have been proposed, introducing novel phases of expansion, particles, or other cosmological mechanisms. These often focus on modifications to the chronology before Big Bang nucleosynthesis, since there is a lack of direct observational evidence to determine exactly what happened. Viable alternatives to inflation that still result in the observed large-scale structure have also been proposed.

Title: Higgs boson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Higgs_boson
Excerpt: The Higgs boson, sometimes called the Higgs particle, is an elementary particle in the Standard Model of particle physics produced by the quantum excitation of the Higgs field, one of the fields in particle physics theory. In the Standard Model, the Higgs particle is a massive scalar boson that couples to (interacts with) particles whose mass arises from their interactions with the Higgs field, has zero spin, even (positive) parity, no electric charge, and no color charge. It is also very unstable, decaying into other particles almost immediately upon generation.
The Higgs field is a scalar field with two neutral and two electrically charged components that form a complex doublet of the weak isospin SU(2) symmetry. Its "sombrero potential" leads it to take a nonzero value everywhere (including otherwise empty space), which breaks the weak isospin symmetry of the electroweak interaction and, via the Higgs mechanism, gives a rest mass to all massive elementary particles of the Standard Model, including the Higgs boson itself. The existence of the Higgs field became the last unverified part of the Standard Model of particle physics, and for several decades was considered "the central problem in particle physics".
Both the field and the boson are named after physicist Peter Higgs, who in 1964, along with five other scientists in three teams, proposed the Higgs mechanism, a way for some particles to acquire mass. All fundamental particles known at the time should be massless at very high energies, but fully explaining how some particles gain mass at lower energies had been extremely difficult. If these ideas were correct, a particle known as a scalar boson (with certain properties) should also exist. This particle was called the Higgs boson and could be used to test whether the Higgs field was the correct explanation. 
After a 40-year search, a subatomic particle with the expected properties was discovered in 2012 by the ATLAS and CMS experiments at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN near Geneva, Switzerland. The new particle was subsequently confirmed to match the expected properties of a Higgs boson. Physicists from two of the three teams, Peter Higgs and François Englert, were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2013 for their theoretical predictions. Although Higgs's name has come to be associated with this theory, several researchers between about 1960 and 1972 independently developed different parts of it.
In the media, the Higgs boson has often been called the "God particle" after the 1993 book The God Particle by Nobel Laureate Leon M. Lederman. The name has been criticised by physicists, including Peter Higgs.

Title: Search for the Higgs boson
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Search_for_the_Higgs_boson
Excerpt: The search for the Higgs boson was a 40-year effort by physicists to prove the existence or non-existence of the Higgs boson, first theorised in the 1960s. The Higgs boson was the last unobserved fundamental particle in the Standard Model of particle physics, and its discovery was described as being the "ultimate verification" of the Standard Model. In March 2013, the Higgs boson was officially confirmed to exist.
This confirmed answer proved the existence of the hypothetical Higgs field—a field of immense significance that is hypothesised as the source of electroweak symmetry breaking and the means by which elementary particles acquire mass. Symmetry breaking is considered proven but confirming exactly how this occurs in nature is a major unanswered question in physics. Proof of the Higgs field (by observing the associated particle) validates the final unconfirmed part of the Standard Model as essentially correct, avoiding the need for alternative sources for the Higgs mechanism. Evidence of its properties is likely to greatly affect human understanding of the universe and open up "new" physics beyond current theories.
Despite their importance, the search and the proof were extremely difficult and took decades, because direct production, detection and verification of the Higgs boson on the scale needed to confirm the discovery and learn its properties required a very large experimental project and huge computing resources. For this reason, most experiments until around 2011 aimed to exclude ranges of masses that the Higgs could not have. Ultimately the search led to the construction of the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) in Geneva, Switzerland, the largest particle accelerator in the world, designed especially for this and other high-energy tests of the Standard Model.