Title: Panama Canal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panama_Canal
Excerpt: The Panama Canal (Spanish: Canal de Panamá) is an artificial 82-kilometer (51-mile) waterway in Panama that connects the Caribbean Sea with the Pacific Ocean. It cuts across the narrowest point of the Isthmus of Panama, and is a conduit for maritime trade between the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Locks at each end lift ships up to Gatun Lake, an artificial fresh water lake 26 meters (85 ft) above sea level, created by damming the Chagres River and Lake Alajuela to reduce the amount of excavation work required for the canal. Locks then lower the ships at the other end. The original locks are 33.5 meters (110 ft) wide and allow the passage of Panamax ships. A third, wider lane of locks was constructed between September 2007 and May 2016. The expanded waterway began commercial operation on 26 June 2016. The new locks allow for the transit of larger, Neopanamax ships. An average of 200,000,000 litres (52 million US gallons) of fresh water is used in a single passing of a ship. The canal is threatened by low water levels during droughts.
The Panama Canal shortcut greatly reduces the time for ships to travel between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, enabling them to avoid the lengthy, hazardous route around the southernmost tip of South America via the Drake Passage, the Strait of Magellan or the Beagle Channel. Its construction was one of the largest and most difficult engineering projects ever undertaken. Since its inauguration on 15 August 1914, the canal has succeeded in shortening maritime communication in time and distance, invigorating maritime and economic transportation by providing a short and relatively inexpensive transit route between the two oceans, decisively influencing global trade patterns, boosting economic growth in developed and developing countries, as well as providing the basic impetus for economic expansion in many remote regions of the world.
Colombia, France, and later the United States controlled the territory surrounding the canal during construction. France began work on the canal in 1881, but stopped in 1889 because of a lack of investors' confidence due to engineering problems and a high worker mortality rate. The US took over the project in 1904 and opened the canal in 1914. The US continued to control the canal and the surrounding Panama Canal Zone until the Torrijos–Carter Treaties provided for its handover to Panama in 1977. After a period of joint American–Panamanian control, the Panamanian government took control in 1999. It is now managed and operated by the Panamanian government-owned Panama Canal Authority. Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 ships in 1914, when the canal opened, to 14,702 vessels in 2008, for a total of 333.7 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System (PC/UMS) tons. By 2012, more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the canal. In that year, the top five users of the canal were the United States, China, Chile, Japan, and South Korea. In 2017, it took ships an average of 11.38 hours to pass between the canal's two outer locks. The American Society of Civil Engineers has ranked the Panama Canal one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World.

Title: Suez Canal
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suez_Canal
Excerpt: The Suez Canal (; Egyptian Arabic: قناة السويس, Qanāt as-Suwais) is an artificial sea-level waterway in Egypt, connecting the Mediterranean Sea to the Red Sea through the Isthmus of Suez and dividing Africa and Asia (and by extension, the Sinai Peninsula from the rest of Egypt). It is the border between Africa and Asia. The 193.3-kilometre-long (120.1-mile) canal is a key trade route between Europe and Asia.
In 1858, French diplomat Ferdinand de Lesseps formed the Compagnie de Suez for the express purpose of building the canal. Construction of the canal lasted from 1859 to 1869 and it officially opened on 17 November 1869. It offers vessels a direct route between the North Atlantic and northern Indian oceans via the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea, avoiding the South Atlantic and southern Indian oceans and reducing the journey distance from the Arabian Sea to London by approximately 8,900 km (5,500 mi), to 10 days at 20 knots (37 km/h; 23 mph) or 8 days at 24 knots (44 km/h; 28 mph). The canal extends from the northern terminus of Port Said to the southern terminus of Port Tewfik at the city of Suez. In 2021, more than 20,600 vessels traversed the canal (an average of 56 per day).
The original canal featured a single-lane waterway with passing locations in the Ballah Bypass and the Great Bitter Lake. It contained, according to Alois Negrelli's plans, no locks, with seawater flowing freely through it. In general, the water in the canal north of the Bitter Lakes flows north in winter and south in summer. South of the lakes, the current changes with the tide at Suez.
The canal was the property of the Egyptian government, but European shareholders, mostly British and French, owned the concessionary company which operated it until July 1956, when President Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalised it—an event which led to the Suez Crisis of October–November 1956. The canal is operated and maintained by the state-owned Suez Canal Authority of Egypt. Under the Convention of Constantinople, it may be used "in time of war as in time of peace, by every vessel of commerce or of war, without distinction of flag." Nevertheless, the canal has played an important military strategic role as a naval short-cut and choke point. Navies with coastlines and bases on both the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea (Egypt and Israel) have a particular interest in the Suez Canal. After Egypt closed the Suez Canal at the beginning of the Six-Day War on 5 June 1967, the canal remained closed for eight years, reopening on 5 June 1975.
The Egyptian government launched construction in 2014 to expand and widen the Ballah Bypass for 35 km (22 mi) to speed up the canal's transit time. The expansion was intended to nearly double the capacity of the Suez Canal, from 49 to 97 ships per day. At a cost of LE (Egyptian Pound) 59.4 billion (US$9 billion), this project was funded with interest-bearing investment certificates issued exclusively to Egyptian entities and individuals.
The Suez Canal Authority officially opened the new side channel in 2016. This side channel, at the northern side of the east extension of the Suez Canal, serves the East Terminal for berthing and unberthing vessels from the terminal. As the East Container Terminal is located on the Canal itself, before the construction of the new side channel, it was not possible to berth or unberth vessels at the terminal while a convoy was running.

Title: Galápagos Islands
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gal%C3%A1pagos_Islands
Excerpt: The Galápagos Islands (Spanish: Islas Galápagos) are an archipelago of volcanic islands in the Eastern Pacific, located around the equator, 485 nautical miles (898 km; 558 mi) west of the mainland of South America. They form the Galápagos Province of the Republic of Ecuador, with a population of slightly over 33,000 in 2020. The province is divided into the cantons of San Cristóbal, Santa Cruz, and Isabela, the three most populated islands in the chain. The Galápagos are famous for their large number of endemic species, which were studied by Charles Darwin in the 1830s and inspired his theory of evolution by means of natural selection. All of these islands are protected as part of Ecuador's Galápagos National Park and Marine Reserve.
There is no firm evidence that Polynesians or the Indigenous peoples of South America reached the islands before their accidental discovery by Bishop Tomás de Berlanga in 1535. If some visitors did arrive, poor access to fresh water on the islands seems to have limited settlement. The Spanish Empire similarly ignored the islands, although during the Golden Age of Piracy, various pirates used the Galápagos as a base to raid Spanish shipping along the Peruvian coast. The goats and black and brown rats introduced during this period greatly damaged the existing ecosystems of several islands. British sailors were chiefly responsible for exploring and mapping the area. Darwin's voyage on HMS Beagle was part of an extensive British survey of the coasts of South America. Ecuador, which won its independence from Spain in 1822 and left Gran Colombia in 1830, formally occupied and claimed the islands on 12 February 1832 while the voyage was ongoing. José de Villamil, the founder of the Ecuadorian Navy, led the push to colonize and settle the islands, gradually supplanting the English names of the major islands with Spanish ones. The United States built the islands' first airport as a base to protect the western approaches of the Panama Canal in the 1930s. After World War II, its facilities were transferred to Ecuador. With the growing importance of ecotourism to the local economy, the airport modernized in the 2010s, using recycled materials for any expansion and shifting entirely to renewable energy sources to handle its roughly 300,000 visitors each year.

Title: Forest management
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forest_management
Excerpt: Forest management is a branch of forestry concerned with overall administrative, legal, economic, and social aspects, as well as scientific and technical aspects, such as silviculture, forest protection, and regulation. This includes management for timber, aesthetics, recreation, urban values, water, wildlife, inland and nearshore fisheries, wood products, plant genetic resources, and other forest resource values. Management objectives can be for conservation, utilisation, or a mixture of the two. Techniques include timber extraction, planting and replanting of different species, building and maintenance of roads and pathways through forests, and preventing fire. Forest Management plays an important part in maintaining ecosystem health and supporting biodiversity.
Many tools like remote sensing, geographic information systems (GIS), and photogrammetry have been developed to improve forest inventory and management planning. Scientific research plays a crucial role in helping forest management. Using these tools and research helps to make the best decisions about forest use and conservation. For example, climate modeling, biodiversity research, carbon sequestration research, GIS applications, and long-term monitoring help assess and improve forest management, ensuring its effectiveness and success. They are used to track the forest conditions and supporting the way they are managed.

Title: 2023 Panamanian protests
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023_Panamanian_protests
Excerpt: A series of protests began in Panama on 20 October 2023 following the immediate passing of a 20-to-40-year mining contract between the government of Panama and First Quantum Minerals, the operator of Cobre Panamá, the largest open-pit copper mine in Central America, placed 20 minutes away from the western coast of Colon Province and within a protected area of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.
Demonstrations started in Panama City shortly after Laurentino Cortizo, the president of Panama, signed into law the mining contract approved by the National Assembly in a 43–5 vote, in less than 12 hours. The protests and road closures expanded nationwide as soon as the public learned of the undisclosed details of the negotiation and approval process of the mining contract. Demonstration hotspots included Panama City, Colón, La Chorrera, Penonomé, Santiago and David, with massive demonstrations for many days, and multiple road closures throughout the Pan-American Highway and minor roads.
President Laurentino Cortizo and his administration appeared multiple times on national media discussing protests and the economic impact of the road closures, justifying their support of the mining contract, without significant progress being made in reducing demonstrations. Eventually, the president proposed a national referendum on whether to preserve the mining contract, which was initially approved by the National Assembly even though it faced strong opposition of the public and the Electoral Tribunal (the electoral commission of the country), but was later dismissed due to numerous concerns. An initiative of repelling the mining contract with a new law was also initially approved by the National Assembly, but it was dismissed by consensus as well, as numerous lawyers suggested that the unconstitutionality would be the most appropriate way to shut down Cobre Panamá and ensuring better defense in an eventual international arbitration process.
First Quantum reported that its subsidiary MPSA made a tax and royalty payment on November 16, 2023 of $567 million for the period from December 2021 to October 2023. Following weeks of protests, the president signed Executive Decree (executive order) 23 as a mining moratorium in the country, and later the National Assembly approved a bill suspending the approval of new mining concessions in Panamanian territory on 3 November 2023, which was immediately signed into law by President Laurentino Cortizo as Law 407. Meanwhile, First Quantum Minerals was forced to reduce their operations in Cobre Panamá due to the road and sea blockades near the mine and the Punta Rincón port, their export area, by fishermen of the Donoso District. This caused the mine to not receive coal for its power plant which caused the mine to reduce operations on November 14 and later stop operations on November 23. First Quantum's stock fell by 50%.
On 28 November 2023, the Supreme Court of Justice unanimously ruled the mining contract as unconstitutional, indicating that it infringed numerous articles of the Constitution. The Supreme Court ruling was widely supported by the people, and celebrations erupted around the country. On the same day, President Cortizo told the public that his administration will ensure the safe and orderly closure of the mine, in compliance with the ruling. Federico Alfaro, minister of Commerce and Industries and a vocal supporter of the mining contract, resigned from office on 30 November 2023 amid increasing calls from the public following his involvement in the controversy.
Four people died in the protests: two in traffic incidents while attempting to close roads, while the remaining two (a teacher and another's husband) were fatally shot in a road closure in Chame District by an elderly man with Panamanian and American citizenship. The protests were reported to have caused economic losses of around $2000 million, close to First Quantum's 2022 income from the mine which was 2959 million dollars. 2022 was the year before law 406 was enacted which proposed a minimum $375 million dollar payment in royalties to the government annually depending on the mine's income. With the mine's closure it has been reported that the country has seen a reduction in GDP equivalent to 2514 million dollars or 4.5% of GDP, close to the mine's income in 2022. The mine's top export destinations and main customers were located in China and Japan. The mine had no significant Panamanian or Latin American customers so almost all production was exported. Many protesters were charged with crimes. According to a non public study by Indesa, the mine paid 443 million dollars in salaries annually, and gave 200 million annually to Panama's social security program, enough for one month of its operation.