Title: Compact Muon Solenoid
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compact_Muon_Solenoid
Excerpt: The Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) experiment is one of two large general-purpose particle physics detectors built on the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN in Switzerland and France. The goal of the CMS experiment is to investigate a wide range of physics, including the search for the Higgs boson, extra dimensions, and particles that could make up dark matter.
CMS is 21 metres long, 15 m in diameter, and weighs about 14,000 tonnes. Over 4,000 people, representing 206 scientific institutes and 47 countries, form the CMS collaboration who built and now operate the detector.  It is located in a cavern at Cessy in France, just across the border from Geneva. In July 2012, along with ATLAS, CMS tentatively discovered the Higgs boson. 
By March 2013 its existence was confirmed.
Gautier Hamel de Monchenault is the spokesperson for the CMS collaboration since 2024.

Title: Large Hadron Collider
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_Hadron_Collider
Excerpt: The Large Hadron Collider (LHC) is the world's largest and highest-energy particle accelerator. It was built by the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) between 1998 and 2008, in collaboration with over 10,000 scientists, and hundreds of universities and laboratories across more than 100 countries. It lies in a tunnel 27 kilometres (17 mi) in circumference and as deep as 175 metres (574 ft) beneath the France–Switzerland border near Geneva.
The first collisions were achieved in 2010 at an energy of 3.5 tera-electronvolts (TeV) per beam, about four times the previous world record. The discovery of the Higgs boson at the LHC was announced in 2012. Between 2013 and 2015, the LHC was shut down and upgraded; after those upgrades it reached 6.5 TeV per beam (13.0 TeV total collision energy). At the end of 2018, it was shut down for maintenance and further upgrades, and reopened over three years later in April 2022.
The collider has four crossing points where the accelerated particles collide. Nine detectors, each designed to detect different phenomena, are positioned around the crossing points. The LHC primarily collides proton beams, but it can also accelerate beams of heavy ions, such as in lead–lead collisions and proton–lead collisions.
The LHC's goal is to allow physicists to test the predictions of different theories of particle physics, including measuring the properties of the Higgs boson, searching for the large family of new particles predicted by supersymmetric theories, and studying other unresolved questions in particle physics.

Title: ALICE experiment
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ALICE_experiment
Excerpt: A Large Ion Collider Experiment (ALICE) is one of the nine detector experiments at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). It is designed to study the conditions thought to have existed immediately after the Big Bang, which it does by measuring the properties of quark–gluon plasma.

Title: List of megaprojects
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_megaprojects
Excerpt: This is a list of megaprojects, which may be defined as projects that cost more than US$1 billion and attract a large amount of public attention because of their effects on communities, the natural and built environment, and budgets; or more simply "initiatives that are physical, very expensive, and public".
Megaprojects can be found in many fields of human endeavor, including bridges, tunnels, highways, railways, hospitals, airports, seaports, power plants, dams, wastewater projects, Special Economic Zones (SEZ), oil and natural gas extraction projects, public buildings, information technology systems, aerospace projects, and military weapons.  The following lists are far from comprehensive.

Title: Future Circular Collider
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Future_Circular_Collider
Excerpt: The Future Circular Collider (FCC) is a proposed particle accelerator with an energy significantly above that of previous circular colliders, such as the Super Proton Synchrotron, the Tevatron, and the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). The FCC project is considering three scenarios for collision types: FCC-hh, for hadron-hadron collisions, including proton-proton and heavy ion collisions, FCC-ee, for electron-positron collisions, and FCC-eh, for electron-hadron collisions.
In FCC-hh, each beam would have a total energy of 560 MJ. With a centre-of-mass collision energy of 100 TeV (vs 14 TeV at LHC) the total energy value increases to 16.7 GJ. These total energy values exceed the present LHC by nearly a factor of 30.
CERN hosted an FCC study exploring the feasibility of different particle collider scenarios with the aim of significantly increasing the energy and luminosity compared to existing colliders. It aims to complement existing technical designs for proposed linear electron/positron colliders such as the International Linear Collider and the Compact Linear Collider.
The study explores the potential of hadron and lepton circular colliders, performing an analysis of infrastructure and operation concepts and considering the technology research and development programmes that are required to build and operate a future circular collider. A conceptual design report was published in early 2019, in time for a scheduled update of the European Strategy for Particle Physics.