Title: Lithium-ion battery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithium-ion_battery
Excerpt: A lithium-ion battery or Li-ion battery is a type of rechargeable battery that uses the reversible intercalation of lithium ions (Li+) into electronically conducting solids to store energy. There are many different varieties, which are usually categorized by the materials used in the cathode. Compared to other rechargeable battery types, they generally have higher specific energy, energy density, and energy efficiency and a longer cycle life and calendar life. In the three decades since Li-ion batteries were first sold in 1991, their volumetric energy density increased threefold while their cost dropped tenfold. In late 2024, global demand passed 1 terawatt-hour per year, while production capacity was more than twice that.
The invention and commercialization of Li-ion batteries has had a large impact on technology, as recognized by the 2019 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, which was awarded to contributors to the development of Li-ion batteries. Li-ion batteries have enabled portable consumer electronics, laptop computers, cellular phones, and electric cars. They are used for grid-scale energy storage and in military and aerospace applications. Li-ion battery sizes are generally not standardised (e.g. in the spirit of the AA battery) and they come in various and unique form factors depending on device and vendor. They typically have a nominal voltage of 3.6 or 3.7 V.
M. Stanley Whittingham conceived intercalation electrodes in the 1970s and created the first rechargeable lithium-ion battery, based on a titanium disulfide cathode and a lithium-aluminium anode, although it suffered from safety problems and was never commercialized. John Goodenough expanded on this work in 1980 by using lithium cobalt oxide as a cathode. The first prototype of the modern Li-ion battery, which uses a carbonaceous anode rather than lithium metal, was developed by Akira Yoshino in 1985 and commercialized by a Sony and Asahi Kasei team led by Yoshio Nishi in 1991. Whittingham, Goodenough, and Yoshino were awarded the 2019 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their contributions to the development of lithium-ion batteries.
Lithium-ion batteries can be a fire or explosion hazard as they contain flammable electrolytes. Progress has been made in the development and manufacturing of safer lithium-ion batteries. Lithium-ion solid-state batteries are being developed to eliminate the flammable electrolyte. Lithium and other minerals can have significant issues in mining, with lithium being water intensive in often arid regions and other minerals used in some Li-ion chemistries potentially being conflict minerals such as cobalt. Environmental issues have encouraged some researchers to improve mineral efficiency and find alternatives such as lithium iron phosphate lithium-ion chemistries or non-lithium-based battery chemistries such as sodium-ion and iron-air batteries.
Lithium-ion cells can be manufactured to optimize energy density or power density. Handheld electronics mostly use lithium polymer batteries (with a polymer gel as an electrolyte), a lithium cobalt oxide (LiCoO2) cathode material, and a graphite anode, which together offer high energy density. Lithium iron phosphate (LiFePO4), lithium manganese oxide (LiMn2O4 spinel, or Li2MnO3-based lithium-rich layered materials, LMR-NMC), and lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide (LiNiMnCoO2 or NMC) may offer longer life and a higher discharge rate. NMC and its derivatives are widely used in the electrification of transport, one of the main technologies (combined with renewable energy) for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles. Lithium nickel cobalt aluminum oxide (NCA) is another high-energy lithium-ion chemistry commonly used in electric vehicle batteries.

Title: Battery recycling
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battery_recycling
Excerpt: Battery recycling is a recycling activity that aims to reduce the number of batteries being disposed as municipal solid waste. Batteries contain a number of heavy metals and toxic chemicals and disposing of them by the same process as regular household waste has raised concerns over soil contamination and water pollution. While reducing the amount of pollutants being released through disposal through the uses of landfill and incineration, battery recycling can facilitate the release of harmful materials from batteries to both the environment and the workers recycling batteries.

Title: Electric battery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_battery
Excerpt: An electric battery is a source of electric power consisting of one or more electrochemical cells with external connections for powering electrical devices. When a battery is supplying power, its positive terminal is the cathode and its negative terminal is the anode. The terminal marked negative is the source of electrons. When a battery is connected to an external electric load, those negatively charged electrons flow through the circuit and reach  the positive terminal, thus causing a redox reaction by attracting positively charged ions, or cations. Thus, higher energy reactants are converted to lower energy products, and the free-energy difference is delivered to the external circuit as electrical energy. Historically the term "battery" specifically referred to a device composed of multiple cells; however, the usage has evolved to include devices composed of a single cell.
Primary (single-use or "disposable") batteries are used once and discarded, as the electrode materials are irreversibly changed during discharge; a common example is the alkaline battery used for flashlights and a multitude of portable electronic devices. Secondary (rechargeable) batteries can be discharged and recharged multiple times using an applied electric current; the original composition of the electrodes can be restored by reverse current. Examples include the lead–acid automotive battery  used in internal combustion engine vehicles,  and lithium-ion batteries used for portable electronics  and electric cars.
Batteries come in many shapes and sizes, from miniature cells used to power hearing aids and wristwatches to, at the largest extreme, huge battery banks the size of rooms that provide standby or emergency power for telephone exchanges and computer data centers. Batteries have much lower specific energy (energy per unit mass) than common fuels such as gasoline. In automobiles, this is somewhat offset by the higher efficiency of electric motors in converting electrical energy to mechanical work, compared to combustion engines.

Title: Lithium–air battery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithium%E2%80%93air_battery
Excerpt: The lithium–air battery (Li–air) is a metal–air electrochemical cell or battery chemistry that uses oxidation of lithium at the anode and reduction of oxygen at the cathode to induce a current flow.
Pairing lithium and ambient oxygen can theoretically lead to electrochemical cells with the highest possible specific energy. Indeed, the theoretical specific energy of a non-aqueous Li–air battery, in the charged state with Li2O2 product and excluding the oxygen mass, is ~40.1 MJ/kg. This is comparable to the theoretical specific energy of gasoline, ~46.8 MJ/kg. In practice, Li–air batteries with a specific energy of ~6.12 MJ/kg lithium at the cell level have been demonstrated. This is about 5 times greater than that of a commercial lithium-ion battery, and is sufficient to run a 2,000 kg electric vehicle for ~500 km (310 miles) on a single charge using 60 kg of lithium (i.e. 20.4 kWh/100 km).  However, the practical power and cycle life of Li–air batteries need significant improvements before they can find a market niche.
Significant electrolyte advances are needed to develop a commercial implementation. Four approaches are being considered: aprotic, aqueous, solid-state and mixed aqueous–aprotic.
A major market driver for batteries is the automotive sector. The energy density of gasoline is approximately 13 kW·h/kg, which corresponds to 1.7 kW·h/kg of energy provided to the wheels after losses. Theoretically, lithium–air can achieve 12 kW·h/kg (43.2 MJ/kg) excluding the oxygen mass. Accounting for the weight of the full battery pack (casing, air channels, lithium substrate), reduces the effective energy density.

Title: Environmental impacts of lithium-ion batteries
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environmental_impacts_of_lithium-ion_batteries
Excerpt: Lithium batteries are batteries that use lithium as an anode. This type of battery is also referred to as a lithium-ion battery and is most commonly used for electric vehicles and electronics.
While they are a means of moving the world towards sustainable energy usage (such as wind and solar energy), there are associated environmental impacts of traditional lithium extraction techniques. 
While lithium-ion batteries can be used as a part of a sustainable solution, shifting all fossil fuel-powered devices to lithium-based batteries might not be the Earth's best option. There is no scarcity yet, but it is a natural resource that can be depleted. According to researchers at Volkswagen, there are about 14 million tons of lithium left, which corresponds to 165 times the production volume in 2018.
Traditional extraction methods include lithium mining from salt brines, lithium-rich clay, and ores. With these techniques, environmental impacts such as loss of freshwater through evaporation, release of harmful gases, chemical leakage, and many other adverse consequences. 
In an attempt to minimize the harmful environmental impact of traditional methods, electrochemical extraction techniques have been developed. These methods both improve efficiency and have less secondary environmental impacts. Electrochemical extraction methods facilitates the dissolution of metal ions by utilizing the electric field. As such, it does not require the same level of heat and concentration of chemicals used in the traditional acid leaching. Electrochemical methods from brine lakes significantly reduces the time taken to obtain lithium, thus reducing the possibility of heavy metal leaching and depletion of fresh water sources.