Title: Area 51
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Area_51
Excerpt: Area 51 is a highly classified United States Air Force (USAF) facility within the Nevada Test and Training Range in southern Nevada, 83 miles (134 km) north-northwest of Las Vegas.
A remote detachment administered by Edwards Air Force Base, the facility is officially called Homey Airport (ICAO: KXTA, FAA LID: XTA) or Groom Lake (after the salt flat next to its airfield). Details of its operations are not made public, but the USAF says that it is an open training range, and it is commonly thought to support the development and testing of experimental aircraft and weapons. The USAF and U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) acquired the site in 1955, primarily for flight tests of the Lockheed U-2 aircraft.
All research and occurrences in Area 51 are Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI). The CIA publicly acknowledged the base's existence on 25 June 2013, through a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request filed in 2005; it has declassified documents detailing its history and purpose. The intense secrecy surrounding the base has made it the frequent subject of conspiracy theories and a central component of unidentified flying object (UFO) folklore.
The surrounding area is a popular tourist destination, including the small town of Rachel on the so-called "Extraterrestrial Highway".

Title: Tunguska event
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tunguska_event
Excerpt: The Tunguska event was a large explosion of between 3 and 50 megatons TNT equivalent that occurred near the Podkamennaya Tunguska River in Yeniseysk Governorate (now Krasnoyarsk Krai), Russia, on the morning of 30 June [O.S. 17 June] 1908. 
The explosion over the sparsely populated East Siberian taiga felled a large number of trees, over an area of 2,150 km2 (830 sq mi) of forest, and eyewitness accounts suggest up to three people may have died. The explosion is attributed to a meteor air burst, the atmospheric explosion of a stony asteroid about 50–60 m (160–200 ft) wide. 
The asteroid approached from the east-south-east, probably with a relatively high speed of about 27 km/s. Though the incident is classified as an impact event, the object is thought to have exploded at an altitude of 5–10 km (3–6 mi) rather than hitting the Earth's surface, leaving no impact crater.
The Tunguska event is the largest impact event on Earth in recorded history, though much larger impacts are believed to have occurred in prehistoric times, including the Chicxulub impact that ended the Cretaceous period. An explosion of the Tunguska magnitude would be capable of destroying a large metropolitan area. The event has been depicted in numerous works of fiction.

Title: Ball lightning
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ball_lightning
Excerpt: Ball lightning is a rare and unexplained phenomenon described as luminescent spherical objects that vary from pea-sized to several meters in diameter. Though usually associated with thunderstorms, the observed phenomenon is reported to last considerably longer than the split-second flash of a lightning bolt and is distinct from St. Elmo's fire and will-o'-the-wisp.
Some 20th-century reports describe balls that eventually explode and leave behind an odor of sulfur. Descriptions of ball lightning appear in a variety of accounts over the centuries and have received attention from scientists. An optical spectrum of what appears to have been a ball lightning event was published in January 2014 and included a video at high frame rate.
Nevertheless, scientific data on ball lightning remain scarce.
Although laboratory experiments have produced effects that are visually similar to reports of ball lightning, how these relate to the phenomenon remains unclear.

Title: Younger Dryas impact hypothesis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Younger_Dryas_impact_hypothesis
Excerpt: The Younger Dryas impact hypothesis (YDIH) is a controversial hypothesis proposing that the Younger Dryas cool period (stadial) at the end of the Last Glacial Period, beginning around 12,900 years ago was the result of an impact or air burst of a meteor, possibly a comet. It has been debunked for lack of evidence for any such impact by many scientific studies by relevant experts across geology, astronomy, and other related disciplines for decades as self-contradictory, inconsistent, omitting contradictory information, and "sometimes defying the laws of physics." The academic conversation around YDIH is considered unusual due to the insistence of its primary proponents that rejection comes from a vocal minority and due to claims of a conspiratorial cover-up by mainstream science.
YDIH was popularized through its inclusion in several documentaries about ancient history on popular science television, and pseudoscientific books by author Graham Hancock. Hancock's pseudoarchaeological theories involving YDIH were the subject of an episode of the Netflix docuseries Ancient Apocalypse in 2022. In a 2024 article, The New York Times argued that the presentation of YDIH causes a psychological response that makes YDIH a matter of identity rather than one of scientific inquiry.
YDIH's proponents founded a non-profit, Comet Research Group Inc., to fund research into impacts such as the one proposed by YDIH. One of CRG's most well-known studies into a hypothesized impact at the archaeological site Tell el-Hammam and the claim that it was the ruins of a Biblical city destroyed in the Book of Genesis by God, Sodom, was found to contain manipulated data after it was published in 2021. It was retracted in 2025 by Scientific Reports and was the second retraction by the publication from CRG members.

Title: 1883 eruption of Krakatoa
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1883_eruption_of_Krakatoa
Excerpt: Between 19 May and 21 October 1883, the volcanic island of Krakatoa (located in the Sunda Strait, then part of the Dutch East Indies—modern-day Indonesia) began erupting, lasting more than five months. On 27 August, the island had its most significant eruption, which destroyed over 70% of the island and its surrounding archipelago, the island collapsing into a caldera. The eruption of 27 August had an estimated volcanic explosivity index of 6, and is one of the deadliest and most destructive volcanic events in recorded history; the third explosion of that day, that occurred at 10:02 a.m., remains the loudest-known sound in history.
The explosion was heard 3,110 kilometres (1,930 mi) away in Perth, Western Australia, and Rodrigues near Mauritius, 4,800 kilometres (3,000 mi) away. The acoustic pressure wave circled the globe more than three times. At least 36,417 deaths are attributed to the eruption and the tsunamis it created. Significant additional effects were felt worldwide in the days and weeks after the volcano's eruption. Additional seismic activity was reported until February 1884, but any reports after October 1883 were dismissed by Rogier Verbeek's subsequent investigation into the eruption.