Title: Marburg virus disease
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marburg_virus_disease
Excerpt: Marburg virus disease (MVD), formerly known as Marburg hemorrhagic fever (MHF), is a viral hemorrhagic fever in human and non-human primates caused by either of the two Marburgviruses: Marburg virus (MARV) and Ravn virus (RAVV). Its clinical symptoms are very similar to those of Ebola virus disease (EVD).
Egyptian fruit bats are believed to be the normal carrier in nature and Marburg virus RNA has been isolated from them.

Title: Bat virome
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bat_virome
Excerpt: The bat virome is the group of viruses associated with bats. Bats host a diverse array of viruses, including all seven types described by the Baltimore classification system: (I) double-stranded DNA viruses; (II) single-stranded DNA viruses; (III) double-stranded RNA viruses; (IV) positive-sense RNA viruses; (V) negative-sense RNA viruses; (VI) positive-sense RNA viruses that replicate through a DNA intermediate; and (VII) double-stranded DNA viruses that replicate through a single-stranded RNA intermediate. The greatest share of bat-associated viruses identified as of 2020 are of type IV, in the family Coronaviridae.
Bats harbor many viruses and a few of them are zoonotic, or capable of infecting humans and causing disease, thus, are considered important emerging viruses. These zoonotic viruses include the rabies virus, SARS-CoV-1, MERS-CoV, Marburg virus, Nipah virus, and Hendra virus. While research strongly indicates that SARS-CoV-2 originated in bats, it is unknown how it was transmitted to humans, or if an intermediate host was involved. It has been speculated that bats may have a role in the ecology of Ebola virus, though this is unconfirmed. A closely-related ebolavirus, Bombali ebolavirus, has been detected in insectivorous bats. While transmission of rabies from bats to humans usually occurs from bites or scratches, most other zoonotic bat viruses are transmitted by direct contact with infected bat fluids like urine, guano, or saliva, or through contact with an infected, non-bat intermediate host. There is no firm evidence that butchering or consuming bat meat can lead to viral transmission, though this has been speculated because such activity causes aerosols that may facilitate respiratory transmission.
Despite the abundance of viruses associated with bats, they rarely become ill from viral infections, and rabies and Tacaribe viruses are the only viruses known to kill bats. A limited amount of research has been conducted on bat virology, particularly bat immune response. Bat immune systems are mostly similar to other mammals; however they differ in their lack of several inflammasomes, which activate the body's inflammatory response, as well as a dampened stimulator of interferon genes (STING) response, which helps control host response to pathogens. Some research indicates that bats have limited affinity maturation in their antibody responses to infection, whereas others show they make high-titer and durable antibody responses. Collectively, studies suggest that bats may be more tolerant of viruses than other mammals, although the basis of this tolerance is unknown. Suppression of bat immune responses can lead to disease from viral infection, suggesting that immune tolerance is not a mechanism of tolerance to viruses. 
While much research has centered on bats as a source of zoonotic viruses, reviews have found mixed results on whether bats harbor more zoonotic viruses than other groups. A 2015 review found that bats do not harbor more zoonotic viruses than primates or rodents, though the three groups harbored more than other mammal orders. In contrast, a 2020 review found that bats do not have more zoonotic viruses than any other bird or mammal group when viral diversity is measured relative to host diversity, as bats are the second-most diverse order of mammals.

Title: Western African Ebola epidemic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_African_Ebola_epidemic
Excerpt: The 2013–2016 epidemic of Ebola virus disease, centered in West Africa, was the most widespread outbreak of the disease in history. It caused major loss of life and socioeconomic disruption in the region, mainly in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. The first cases were recorded in Guinea in December 2013; the disease spread to neighbouring Liberia and Sierra Leone, with minor outbreaks occurring in Nigeria and Mali. Secondary infections of medical workers occurred in the United States and Spain. Isolated cases were recorded in Senegal, the United Kingdom and Italy. The number of cases peaked in October 2014 and then began to decline gradually, following the commitment of substantial international resources. 
It caused significant mortality, with a high case fatality rate. By the end of the epidemic, 28,616 people had been infected; of these, 11,310 had died, for a case-fatality rate of 40%. As of 8 May 2016, the World Health Organization (WHO) and respective governments reported a total of 28,646 suspected cases and 11,323 deaths (39.5%), though the WHO believes that this substantially understates the magnitude of the outbreak. On 8 August 2014, a Public Health Emergency of International Concern was declared and on 29 March 2016, the WHO terminated the Public Health Emergency of International Concern status of the outbreak. Subsequent flare-ups occurred; the epidemic was finally declared over on 9 June 2016, 42 days after the last case tested negative on 28 April 2016 in Monrovia.
The outbreak left about 17,000 survivors of the disease, many of whom report post-recovery symptoms termed post-Ebola syndrome, often severe enough to require medical care for months or even years. An additional cause for concern is the apparent ability of the virus to "hide" in a recovered survivor's body for an extended period and then become active months or years later, either in the same individual or in a sexual partner. In December 2016, the WHO announced that a two-year trial of the rVSV-ZEBOV vaccine appeared to offer protection from the variant of EBOV responsible for the Western Africa outbreak. The vaccine is considered to be effective and is the only prophylactic that offers protection; hence, 300,000 doses have been stockpiled. rVSV-ZEBOV received regulatory approval in 2019.

Title: Kivu Ebola epidemic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kivu_Ebola_epidemic
Excerpt: The Kivu Ebola epidemic was an outbreak of Ebola virus disease (EVD) mainly in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), and in other parts of Central Africa, from 2018 to 2020. Between 1 August 2018 and 25 June 2020 it resulted in 3,470 reported cases. The Kivu outbreak also affected Ituri Province, whose first case was confirmed on 13 August 2018. In November 2018, the outbreak became the biggest Ebola outbreak in the DRC's history, and had become the second-largest Ebola outbreak in recorded history worldwide, behind only the 2013–2016 Western Africa epidemic, until 29 July 2026, when the 2026 Ebola epidemic surpassed it, making it the second-largest Ebola outbreak in the DRC and the third-largest Ebola outbreak in history. In June 2019, the virus reached Uganda, having infected a 5-year-old Congolese boy who entered Uganda with his family, but was contained.
A military conflict in the region that had begun in January 2015 hindered treatment and prevention efforts. The World Health Organization (WHO) described the combination of military conflict and civilian distress as a potential "perfect storm" that could lead to a rapid worsening of the outbreak. In May 2019, the WHO reported that since January, 85 health workers had been wounded or killed in 42 attacks on health facilities. In some areas, aid organizations had to stop their work due to violence. Health workers also had to deal with misinformation spread by opposing politicians.
Due to the deteriorating security situation in North Kivu and surrounding areas, the WHO raised the risk assessment at the national and regional level from "high" to "very high" in September 2018. In October, the United Nations Security Council stressed that all armed hostility in the DRC should come to a stop to better fight the ongoing EVD outbreak. A confirmed case in Goma triggered the decision by the WHO to convene an emergency committee for the fourth time, and on 17 July 2019, the WHO announced a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC), the highest level of alarm the WHO can sound.
On 15 September 2019, some slowdown of EVD cases was noted by the WHO in DRC. However, contact tracing continued to be less than 100%; at the time, it was at 89%. As of mid-October the transmission of the virus had significantly reduced; by then it was confined to the Mandima region near where the outbreak began, and was only affecting 27 health zones in the DRC (down from a peak of 207).  New cases dwindled to zero by 17 February 2020, but after 52 days without a case, surveillance and response teams on the ground confirmed three new cases of Ebola in Beni health zone in mid-April.  On 25 June 2020, the outbreak was declared ended.
As a new and separate outbreak, the Congolese health ministry reported on 1 June 2020 that there were cases of Ebola in Équateur Province in north-western DRC, described as the eleventh Ebola outbreak since records began. This separate outbreak was declared over as of 18 November following no reported cases for 42 days, and caused 130 cases and 55 deaths.

Title: 2026 Ebola epidemic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2026_Ebola_epidemic
Excerpt: On 14 May 2026, an epidemic of Ebola was reported in the Ituri Province of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). It is the 17th Ebola outbreak in the DRC and began five months after the end of the previous outbreak. Early infections are theorized to have occurred in January or February 2026 in the town of Mongbwalu. By early August, it had become the fastest growing Ebola outbreak on record, as well as the second largest.
It is caused by the Bundibugyo ebolavirus (BDBV), which has complicated efforts as existing treatments and vaccines are for the Zaire ebolavirus. The outbreak was declared a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) by the World Health Organization (WHO) on 16 May 2026.
There have been 3,072 confirmed deaths in the DRC, and another 2 in Uganda as of the first week of September. Poor healthcare infrastructure and an ongoing armed conflict in the region, hinder detection, treatment, and prevention; it is considered likely that the true scale of the outbreak exceeds the confirmed numbers.
The outbreak has spread beyond Ituri to five more provinces in the DRC,  North Kivu, South Kivu, Haut-Uélé, Tshopo and Bas-Uélé. Cases were also reported in Uganda's capital, Kampala.