Title: Misinformation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Misinformation
Excerpt: Misinformation is incorrect or misleading information. Whereas misinformation can exist with or without specific malicious intent, disinformation is deliberately deceptive and intentionally propagated. Misinformation is typically spread unintentionally, mostly caused by a lack of knowledge, an error, or simply a misunderstanding, which contrasts with disinformation. Misinformation can include inaccurate, incomplete, misleading, or false information as well as selective or half-truths. Social media platforms, such as Facebook, Instagram, X, etc., are designed in ways that enable information, including misinformation, to be posted and shared far more quickly than through other communication mediums.
In January 2024, the World Economic Forum identified misinformation and disinformation, propagated by both internal and external interests, to "widen societal and political divides" as the most severe global risks in the short term. The reason is that misinformation can influence people's beliefs about communities, politics, medicine, and more. Research shows that several factors, including cognitive biases, emotional responses, social dynamics, and media literacy levels, can influence susceptibility to misinformation.
Policies and legal measures created to address misinformation and disinformation, in some contexts, can be applied to restrict journalistic work and limit political expression, as reported by UNESCO and other monitoring organizations. In some countries, anti-misinformation laws and policies have been used to reduce media freedom, which has even resulted in the imprisonment of journalists and editors. The countries ranked the worst for media freedom in 2025 are, in this order, Eritrea, North Korea, China, Syria, Iran, Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Vietnam, Nicaragua, Russia, Egypt, Myanmar, Djibouti, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Cuba, United Arab Emirates, Palestine, Saudi Arabia, Cambodia, Venezuela, Turkey and Pakistan.
The term came into wider recognition during the mid-1990s through the early 2020s, when its effects on public ideological influence began to be investigated. However, misinformation campaigns have existed for hundreds of years.

Title: Reliability of Wikipedia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reliability_of_Wikipedia
Excerpt: The reliability of Wikipedia and its volunteer-driven and community-regulated editing model, particularly its English-language edition, has been questioned and tested. Wikipedia is written and edited by volunteer editors (known as Wikipedians) who generate online content with the editorial oversight of other volunteer editors via community-generated policies and guidelines. The reliability of the project has been tested statistically through comparative review, analysis of the historical patterns, and strengths and weaknesses inherent in its editing process. The online encyclopedia has been criticized for its factual unreliability, principally regarding its content, presentation, and editorial processes. Studies and surveys attempting to gauge the reliability of Wikipedia have mixed results. Wikipedia's reliability was frequently criticized in the 2000s but has been improved; its English-language edition has been generally praised in the late 2010s and early 2020s.

Select assessments of its reliability have examined how quickly vandalism—content perceived by editors to constitute false or misleading information—is removed. Two years after the project was started, in 2003, an IBM study found that "vandalism is usually repaired extremely quickly—so quickly that most users will never see its effects". The inclusion of false or fabricated content has, at times, lasted for years on Wikipedia due to its volunteer editorship. Its editing model facilitates multiple systemic biases, namely selection bias, inclusion bias, participation bias, and group-think bias. The majority of the encyclopedia is written by male editors, leading to a gender bias in coverage, and the make up of the editing community has prompted concerns about racial bias, spin bias, corporate bias, and national bias, among others. An ideological bias on Wikipedia has also been identified on both conscious and subconscious levels. A series of studies from Harvard Business School in 2012 and 2014 found Wikipedia "significantly more biased" than Encyclopædia Britannica but attributed the finding more to the length of the online encyclopedia as opposed to slanted editing.
Instances of non-neutral or conflict-of-interest editing and the use of Wikipedia for "revenge editing" has attracted attention to false, biased, or defamatory content in articles, especially biographies of living people.  Articles on less technical subjects, such as the social sciences, humanities, and culture, have been known to deal with misinformation cycles, cognitive biases, coverage discrepancies, and editor disputes. The online encyclopedia does not guarantee the validity of its information.  Nevertheless, it is regarded as a valuable "starting point" for researchers seeking to examine the listed references, citations, and sources. Academics suggest reviewing reliable sources when assessing the quality of articles. 
Its coverage of medical and scientific articles such as pathology, toxicology, oncology, pharmaceuticals, and psychiatry were compared to professional and peer-reviewed sources in a 2005 Nature study. A year later Encyclopædia Britannica disputed the Nature study, whose authors, in turn, replied with a further rebuttal. Concerns regarding readability and the overuse of technical language were raised in studies published by the American Society of Clinical Oncology (2011), Psychological Medicine (2012), and European Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology (2014). The Simple English Wikipedia serves as a simplified version of articles to make complex articles more accessible to the layperson on a given topic in Basic English. Wikipedia's popularity, mass readership, and free accessibility has led the encyclopedia to command a substantial second-hand cognitive authority across the world.

Title: 2025–2026 Iran–United States negotiations
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025%E2%80%932026_Iran%E2%80%93United_States_negotiations
Excerpt: In 2025 and 2026, Iran and the United States began a series of negotiations aimed at reaching a nuclear peace agreement, following a letter from US president Donald Trump to Iranian supreme leader Ali Khamenei, setting a 60-day deadline for Iran to reach an agreement. After the deadline passed without an agreement in June 2025, Israel launched airstrikes against Iran, starting the Twelve-Day War. As of June 28, 2026, there were three rounds of talks before the Islamabad talks that led to the Islamabad Memorandum, and two rounds of technical talks.
The first round was held in Oman on April 12, 2025, led by US special envoy Steve Witkoff and Iranian foreign minister Abbas Araghchi. A second round of Omani-mediated talks took place in Rome on April 19, 2025, again between Witkoff and Araghchi. This was followed by a third round in Muscat around a week later; an expert-level meeting to develop a framework for a possible nuclear agreement was led by Michael Anton for the US and by Majid Takht-Ravanchi for Iran.
The US military had been building up its presence in the Middle East as the threat of war escalated. US bases throughout the region accommodate approximately 50,000 American troops. As part of the peace proposals, Iran proposed building at least 19 additional reactors, suggesting that American involvement in these projects could help revitalize the US nuclear industry. A planned address by Araghchi to formally announce this proposal was ultimately cancelled.
On May 27, Trump said both sides were close to finalizing an agreement involving strong inspections. Araghchi stated he was unsure whether a deal was imminent, while Khamenei's advisor, Ali Shamkhani, dismissed Trump's desired control over the Iranian nuclear program as a "fantasy". Israel reportedly threatened to preemptively attack Iranian nuclear installations, although this was denied by Benjamin Netanyahu. On May 31, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) reported that Iran had amassed a record amount of military-grade enriched uranium. On June 11, US embassies in Iraq and other Arab states began to evacuate personnel in response to Iranian threats on American bases. The Houthis threatened retaliation against the United States should an attack be launched on Iran. President Trump was reportedly provided with a range of options for an attack on Iran by CENTCOM. The UK issued a threat advisory for ships in the Persian Gulf. On June 12, the IAEA declared Iran in breach of its non-proliferation obligations.
On June 13, Israel launched large-scale attacks targeting Iran's military leadership and nuclear scientists. Consequently, Iran withdrew and suspended nuclear talks indefinitely. The United States also carried out a series of strikes on Iranian nuclear sites and negotiations between the United States and Iran were subsequently suspended. Talks resumed in early 2026 after large-scale protests in Iran. Meanwhile, the US military buildup in the Middle East continued.
On February 28, 2026, the United States and Israel launched large-scale strikes on Iran, marking the start of the 2026 Iran war. The attacks included the assassination of Khamenei, as well as the assassination of Ali Larijani, a key figure in the negotiations. On April 7, 2026, Iran and the United States announced a temporary two-week ceasefire.
On May 24, 2026, reports indicated that the United States and Iran were nearing a broader peace agreement following months of conflict and stalled negotiations. US president Donald Trump stated that a memorandum of understanding was close to finalisation and suggested that the Strait of Hormuz could soon reopen under a ceasefire framework.
On June, 17, 2026, Trump and Iranian president Masoud Pezeshkian signed remotely the Islamabad Memorandum to end the war between both countries and Israel, with Trump signing it during dinner with French president Emmanuel Macron at the Palace of Versailles following the G7 summit, after which Pezeshkian signed it in Tehran. 
On July 8, the ceasefire agreement between the US and Iran broke after Iran launched attacks on commercial vessels in the Strait of Hormuz to assert Iranian sovereignty over the Strait of Hormuz, startling US officials and shattering a brief diplomatic calm.

Title: 2025–2026 Iranian protests
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2025%E2%80%932026_Iranian_protests
Excerpt: The 2025–2026 Iranian protests were a series of nationwide demonstrations against the government of Iran that began on 28 December 2025 amid a deepening economic crisis. The unrest followed a sharp depreciation of the Iranian rial, rising inflation, and widespread shortages linked to international sanctions and government mismanagement. This event has been the largest uprising in Iran since the 1979 Islamic Revolution, spreading to more than 200 cities across the country. The ensuing crackdown, reportedly carried out under orders by Ali Khamenei and senior officials to use live fire on protesters, resulted in massacres that left thousands of protesters dead.
Initially sparked by frustration over record-high inflation, food prices, and currency depreciation, the protests quickly evolved into a broader movement demanding an end to the Islamic government. Beginning with the bazaari (shopkeepers and merchants) in Tehran's Grand Bazaar and later university students, the demonstrations soon spread to other major cities and small settlements. Protesters chanted anti-government slogans.
Although largely leaderless, the protests escalated on 8 January following a call for unified protests by Reza Pahlavi, the son of Iran's last shah. On 8 January, 1.5 million protesters took to the streets of Tehran and, by 9 January, 5 million people were protesting nationwide according to an unnamed European diplomat citing intelligence. Pahlavi has called for a peaceful transition and a referendum to determine Iran's future political system. The Iranian government has cut off Internet access and telephone services in an attempt to prevent protesters from organising. It has accused the United States and Israel of fuelling the protests. 
By 9 January, millions had taken to the streets in protests across all 31 provinces. Amid the internet blackout, Iranian security forces escalated their use of live ammunition against demonstrators. Hospitals in Tehran and Shiraz were reported to be overwhelmed by injured protesters, many suffering gunshot wounds. Iran's foreign ministry spokesperson confirmed that security forces had fired on protesters, raising international concern over human rights. Thousands were also arrested during the violent crackdown. Despite the blackout, on 10 January 2026, The Guardian documented multiple reports of security forces opening fire on demonstrations, with one eyewitness stating they saw "hundreds of bodies" across Tehran.
By late January, Time, The Guardian and Iran International, citing local health officials, reported estimates that between 30,000 and 36,500 protesters were killed during 8–9 January. As of 5 February 2026, the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) had confirmed and documented 7,015 deaths, including at least 6,508 protesters, with 11,744 additional cases under review. The Iranian government had reported 3,117 deaths, while local health officials said the total death toll could be as high as 30,000.
On 11 February, President Pezeshkian apologized to the nation for the massacres. On 21 February, a second major wave of student‑led protests erupted at the start of the new academic semester across several Iranian universities. Demonstrations included sit‑ins and campus protests. The renewed unrest coincided with forty‑day memorials for those killed in earlier protests and featured chants against Ali Khamenei as well as calls for Reza Pahlavi to replace him. During the unrest, a student at the Iran University of Science and Technology in Tehran died, Iranian state media attributed the death to a "sudden health incident". Protests continued over the following days, with demonstrations from 23 to 25 February adopting the Lion and Sun flag and featuring anti‑government chants. University authorities and security forces declared the protests "illegal", conducted searches of student dormitories, and arrested suspected participants, while Basij members and other security forces attacked protesters at several universities.
Following the escalation of the 2026 Iran war and strikes on government and military targets, protests continued across Iran despite renewed internet shutdowns and heavy security deployments. Demonstrations took the form of nightly rooftop chants from residential buildings, with videos showing security forces firing towards people chanting from windows. The assassination of Ali Khamenei marked a turning point, with gatherings and celebrations in several areas despite violent crackdowns. After the government announced Mojtaba Khamenei as the new supreme leader on 8 March, protesters chanted "Death to Mojtaba" in residential neighborhoods. Opposition figure Reza Pahlavi later urged Iranians to remain in their homes while continuing rooftop chants as a sign of unity, while the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps threatened a wider crackdown. During Chaharshanbe Suri celebrations ahead of Nowruz, many Iranians defied official restrictions and gathered in the streets, prompting security forces to disperse crowds with gunfire.

Title: Islamabad Memorandum
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Islamabad_Memorandum
Excerpt: The Islamabad Memorandum, officially the Islamabad Memorandum of Understanding between the United States of America and the Islamic Republic of Iran, was a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the United States and Iran aimed at ending the 2026 Iran war. It was primarily brokered by Pakistan, with Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Egypt also facilitating negotiations.  
Pakistani prime minister Shehbaz Sharif said that the U.S. and Iran had reached agreement on final text to end the war on 12 June 2026. On 15 June, U.S. vice president JD Vance announced that the memorandum was digitally signed by representatives of the U.S. and Iran on the previous day. On 17 June, Trump and Iranian president Masoud Pezeshkian signed remotely the memorandum of understanding to end the war, with Trump signing it during dinner with French president Emmanuel Macron at the Palace of Versailles following the G7 summit, after which Pezeshkian signed it in Tehran. Iranian supreme leader Mojtaba Khamenei issued a written statement, saying that he endorsed the memorandum of understanding despite misgivings.
The memorandum was a 14-point "framework agreement" and provided for an end to military strikes, the reopening of the Strait of Hormuz to commercial shipping toll-free for 60 days, an end to the U.S. naval blockade of Iranian ports, and a 60-day extension of the ceasefire. Iran indicated that it intended to charge fees for unspecified services to ships transiting through the Strait of Hormuz, though analysts questioned whether this would be legal. Subject to a final deal, the Islamabad Memorandum would also include an at least $300 billion private fund designed to trigger investment in Iran in addition to the release of frozen Iranian assets. 
The Islamabad Memorandum also immediately waived, but did not eliminate, sanctions that Trump imposed on Iran's oil exports, allowing Iran once again to sell its crude on the world market and restoring a revenue stream worth hundreds of billions of dollars. The United States waived sanctions on Iran for 60 days on 21 June. Major issues, however, were not settled in the framework agreement, which contains no accord on Iran's nuclear program or uranium stockpiles, although it does call for the downgrading of Iranian uranium from weapons-grade to reactor-grade following a final agreement. These issues are deferred to future talks to take place over the 60-day ceasefire extension. The framework agreement also does not mention the Iranian ballistic missile program or its network of non-state allies in the Middle East.
On 8 July, after Iran struck multiple commercial ships in the Strait of Hormuz and the US responded by striking Iranian territory, Trump indicated the MoU was "over" after Iran launched attacks on commercial vessels in the Strait of Hormuz to assert Iranian sovereignty over the Strait of Hormuz, startling US officials and shattering a brief diplomatic calm. He added that U.S. negotiators can continue negotiations, but he voiced pessimism regarding the potential results. On 18 July, Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister Kazem Gharibabadi announced the suspension of commitments related to the MoU, citing an alleged breach of obligations by the US as the reason for this action. On 17 August, the 60-day deadline for the US and Iran to negotiate a “final deal” to end the war passed.