Title: Chernobyl exclusion zone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chernobyl_exclusion_zone
Excerpt: The Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant Zone of Alienation, also known as the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone or Chornobyl Exclusion Zone, is also called the 30-Kilometre Zone or simply The Zone, was established shortly after the 1986 Chernobyl disaster in the Ukrainian SSR of the Soviet Union.
Initially, Soviet authorities declared an exclusion zone spanning a 30-kilometre (19 mi) radius around the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, designating the area for evacuations and placing it under military control. Its borders have since been altered to cover a larger area of Ukraine including the northernmost part of Vyshhorod Raion in Kyiv Oblast, and adjoins the Polesie State Radioecological Reserve in neighbouring Belarus. The Chernobyl exclusion zone is managed by the State Agency of Ukraine of on Exclusion Zone Management of the State Emergency Service of Ukraine, while the power plant and its sarcophagus and the New Safe Confinement are administered separately.
The current area of approximately 2,600 km2 (1,000 sq mi) in Ukraine is where radioactive contamination is the highest, and public access and habitation are accordingly restricted. Other areas of compulsory resettlement and voluntary relocation not part of the restricted exclusion zone exist in the surrounding areas and throughout Ukraine. In February 2019, it was revealed that talks were underway to re-adjust the exclusion zone's boundaries to reflect the declining radioactivity of its outer areas.
Public access to the exclusion zone is restricted in order to prevent access to hazardous areas, reduce the spread of radiological contamination, and conduct radiological and ecological monitoring activities. Today, the Chernobyl exclusion zone is one of the most radioactively contaminated areas on Earth and draws significant scientific interest for the high levels of radiation exposure in the environment, as well as increasing interest from disaster tourists. It has become a thriving sanctuary, with naturally diverse flora and fauna and some of the thickest forests in Ukraine, primarily due to the lack of human activity in the exclusion zone since 1986.
Since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, the Chernobyl exclusion zone has been the site of fighting with neighbouring Russia, which captured Chernobyl on 24 February 2022. By April 2022, the Kyiv offensive failed and Russian military withdrew from the region. Ukrainian authorities continue to keep the exclusion zone closed to tourists, pending cessation of hostilities in the Russo-Ukrainian war.

Title: Environmental impact of war
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environmental_impact_of_war
Excerpt: The study of the environmental impact of war focuses on the modernization of warfare and its increasing effects on the environment. Tactics such as scorched earth methods have been used for much of recorded history; however, the methods of modern warfare cause far greater devastation on the biophysical environment. The progression of warfare from chemical weapons to nuclear weapons has increasingly created stress on ecosystems and the environment. Environmental toxicants like heavy metals linger for numerous decades in the environment, and in dry areas can be transported across large distance. Genotoxic effects as in the case of Agent Orange can affect multiple generations. 
Wars also have a detrimental effects on environmental policy which can last for 20-30 years after the conflict. When wars create energy shortage and rise of fossil fuel prices, it disrupts global climate action. The military sector is responsible for around 5.5% of global GHG emissions (not counting emissions from the conflicts themself), which are not included in GHG assessments on global and country level.

Title: History of the United States (2016–present)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_United_States_(2016%E2%80%93present)
Excerpt: The history of the United States that began in 2016 is notable for a return to great power rivalry between the United States, China, and Russia. This period has been called the Second Cold War as well as part of a Second Gilded Age driven by increasing wealth inequality. It has also been described as the beginning of the Seventh Party System, due to recent shifts in demographics and voting patterns.
In 2016, China surpassed the United States as the world's largest economy when measured by purchasing power parity (PPP). In the 2016 U.S. presidential election, the Republican Party ticket of Donald Trump and Mike Pence, using a populist message, defeated Democratic Party ticket of Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine. Barack Obama finished his presidency by completing a withdrawal of thousands of U.S. troops from Afghanistan and declassifying alleged significant Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections.
During his first presidency, which began in 2017, Trump enacted tax cuts, increased immigration restrictions, and expanded the Mexico–United States border wall. Trump promoted an "America First" foreign policy that included a trade war with China. In December 2019, Trump was impeached for his alleged role in a scandal involving the Russo-Ukrainian War, for which he was subsequently acquitted. In 2020, Trump oversaw the federal government response to the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent recession as he ran for reelection against Obama's vice president Joe Biden. The Democratic ticket of Biden and Kamala Harris beat Trump and Pence in the 2020 presidential election. Trump, along with his supporters, made multiple attempts to overturn the presidential election with false claims of fraud, which culminated with the January 6, 2021, attack on the U.S. Capitol in an attempt to stop the peaceful transfer of power. The attack and Trump's involvement led to his second impeachment and acquittal.
The presidency of Joe Biden, which began in 2021, included major legislation such as the American Rescue Plan Act, Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act. Biden's foreign policy oversaw the complete withdrawal of U.S. troops that ended the war in Afghanistan, leading to the Taliban retaking control from the collapsed Afghan government. Biden kept tariffs from Trump's trade war with China. Biden responded to the Russian invasion of Ukraine that began in 2022 by imposing sanctions on Russia and authorizing civilian and military aid to Ukraine. Biden strongly supported Israel's military efforts during the Gaza war that began in 2023 before adopting a ceasefire proposal at the end of his term. Biden abandoned his 2024 reelection campaign and endorsed Harris, who lost to the Republican ticket of Trump and JD Vance in the 2024 United States presidential election.
Trump began his second presidency by pardoning around 1,500 January 6 rioters, initiating mass layoffs of the federal workforce, signing the Laken Riley Act, and starting a trade war with Mexico and Canada while escalating the trade war with China. Trump's administration suspended the provision of intelligence and military aid to Ukraine, offered concessions to Russia, requested half of Ukraine's oil and minerals as payment for U.S. support, and said that Ukraine bore partial responsibility for the invasion. These moves have been criticized by most of the United States' allies and by many international organizations. Trump's broad and extensive use of executive orders has drawn numerous lawsuits challenging their legality.

Title: Ukrainian refugee crisis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ukrainian_refugee_crisis
Excerpt: The Ukrainian refugee crisis began with the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. As of September 2025, the UNHCR has recorded 5.7 million Ukrainian refugees around the world, with 90% of this figure residing in various European countries outside of Ukraine. Older reports by the International Organization for Migration in May 2022 show approximately eight million Ukrainians as internally displaced persons. By 20 March 2022, nearly one-quarter of Ukraine's total population had been displaced due to active military hostilities with Russia. About 90% of all Ukrainian refugees are women and children; by 24 March, more than half of all children in Ukraine had left their homes, of whom a quarter had left the country as well. Men between the ages of 18 and 60 have been banned from leaving the country under Ukrainian martial law, which came into force a few hours into Russia's first military offensive into Ukraine. This ongoing escalation of the Russo-Ukrainian War has caused the largest refugee crisis in the 21st century and the fourth-largest refugee crisis in modern history as a whole, with the highest refugee flight rate globally. It is also the first European refugee crisis since the Yugoslav Wars in the 1990s and the largest one to have occurred in Europe since World War II.
The vast majority of Ukrainian refugees initially entered neighbouring countries to the west of Ukraine (Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, and Moldova). Around three million of these people then moved further west to other European countries. As of May 2025, the UNHCR reports that the countries in which the largest numbers of Ukrainians had applied for asylum, or other temporary protection, are Germany (1.2 million), Poland (1 million), and the Czech Republic (0.4 million). As of September 2022, Human Rights Watch has documented that Ukrainian civilians, particularly children, have been forcibly transferred to Russia. The OHCHR has corroborated this claim, stating that "There have been credible allegations of forced transfers of unaccompanied children to Russian-occupied territory, or to the Russian Federation itself." The United States Department of State estimated that at least 900,000 Ukrainian citizens (including children) were forcibly transferred to Russia in the first six months after the invasion. Around the same time in late 2022, more than 4.5 million Ukrainians had returned to Ukraine, owing to the withdrawal of Russian troops from all fronts but the Donbas and parts of southern Ukraine.
The European Union (EU) has allowed entry to all Ukrainian refugees, and it has also invoked the Temporary Protection Directive to grant displaced Ukrainians the right to stay, work, and study in any EU member state for an initial period of one year.

Title: Dogs in the Chernobyl exclusion zone
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dogs_in_the_Chernobyl_exclusion_zone
Excerpt: On April 25, 1986, a safety test was conducted on Chernobyl's Unit 4 reactor during a planned maintenance shutdown. Operators attempted to determine whether slowing the turbine could provide enough power to cool the reactor in the event of an outage. Miscommunication between the test engineers and plant safety staff led to the reactor operating under unstable conditions. The resulting power surge caused fuel damage, steam buildup, and two explosions early on April 26—one from steam pressure and another likely from the buildup of hydrogen. The blasts ignited fires and released radioactive material into the atmosphere, prompting the evacuation of nearby residents within a 30-kilometer zone that later became known as the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone.
After the 1986 nuclear disaster in Chernobyl, the regional domestic dog population suffered from environmental pollution originating from the radiation. This disaster made the environment highly mutagenic, leading to various evolutionary processes including, but not limited to, bottlenecks, directional selection, and higher rates of mutation resulting in evolutionary trajectories that differ from unexposed animals.