Title: Quantum computing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_computing
Excerpt: A quantum computer is a computer that represents and processes information using quantum states. Quantum computations exploit phenomena such as superposition, interference, and entanglement. Quantum computers have the potential to complete some calculations exponentially faster than classical computers. For example, a large-scale quantum computer could break widely used encryption schemes and aid physicists in performing physical simulations. However, current hardware implementations of quantum computation are largely experimental and suitable for only certain specialized tasks.
The basic unit of information in quantum computing, the qubit (quantum bit), serves a similar function as the bit in ordinary or "classical" computing. Unlike a classical bit, which can be in one of two states (a binary), a qubit can exist in a linear combination of states known as a quantum superposition. The result of measuring a qubit is one of the two states, given by a probabilistic rule. If a quantum computer manipulates the qubit in a particular way, wave interference effects amplify the probability of the desired measurement result. Quantum algorithm design involves creating procedures that allow a quantum computer to perform this amplification.
Quantum computers are not yet practical for real-world applications. If a physical qubit is not sufficiently isolated from its environment, it suffers from quantum decoherence, introducing noise (error) into calculations. Governments have invested in research aimed at developing qubits with longer coherence times and lower error rates. Example implementations include superconductors (which isolate an electrical current by eliminating electrical resistance) and ion traps (which confine a single atomic particle using electromagnetic fields). Researchers have claimed that quantum devices can outperform classical computers on specific tasks, a metric referred to as quantum advantage or quantum supremacy. Such tasks are not necessarily useful for real-world applications. As a result, as of 2026 demonstrations are best understood as scientific milestones rather than evidence for near-term deployment. Global government investment in quantum computing reached $10 billion by April 2025.

Title: Quantum information
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_information
Excerpt: Quantum information is the information of the state of a quantum system. It is the basic entity of study in quantum information science, and can be manipulated using quantum information processing techniques. Quantum information refers to both the technical definition in terms of von Neumann entropy and the general computational term.
It is an interdisciplinary field that involves quantum mechanics, computer science, information theory, philosophy and cryptography among other fields. Its study is also relevant to disciplines such as cognitive science and neuroscience. Its main focus is in extracting information from matter at the microscopic scale. Observation in science is one of the most important ways of acquiring information and measurement is required in order to quantify the observation, making this crucial to the scientific method. In quantum mechanics, due to the uncertainty principle, non-commuting observables cannot be precisely measured simultaneously, as an eigenstate in one basis is not an eigenstate in the other basis. According to the eigenstate–eigenvalue link, an observable is well-defined (definite) when the state of the system is an eigenstate of the observable. Since any two non-commuting observables are not simultaneously well-defined, a quantum state can never contain definitive information about both non-commuting observables.
Data can be encoded into the quantum state of a quantum system as quantum information. While quantum mechanics deals with examining properties of matter at the microscopic level, quantum information science focuses on extracting information from those properties, and quantum computation manipulates and processes information – performs logical operations – using quantum information processing techniques.
Quantum information, like classical information, can be processed using digital computers, transmitted from one location to another, manipulated with algorithms, and analyzed with computer science and mathematics. Just like the basic unit of classical information is the bit, quantum information deals with qubits. Quantum information can be measured using von Neumann entropy.
Recently, the field of quantum computing has become an active research area because of the possibility to disrupt modern computation, communication, and cryptography.

Title: Quantum decoherence
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_decoherence
Excerpt: Quantum decoherence is the loss of quantum coherence.  It involves generally a loss of information of a system to its environment. Quantum decoherence has been studied to understand how quantum systems convert to systems that can be explained by classical mechanics.  Beginning out of attempts to extend the understanding of quantum mechanics, the theory has developed in several  directions and experimental studies have confirmed some of the key issues. Quantum computing relies on quantum coherence and is one of the primary practical applications of the concept.

Title: Quantum information science
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_information_science
Excerpt: Quantum information science is an interdisciplinary field that combines the principles of quantum mechanics, information theory, and computer science to explore how quantum phenomena can be harnessed for the processing, analysis, and transmission of information. Quantum information science covers both theoretical and experimental aspects of quantum physics, including the limits of what can be achieved with quantum information. The term quantum information theory is sometimes used, but it refers to the theoretical aspects of information processing and does not include experimental research. 
At its core, quantum information science explores how information behaves when stored and manipulated using quantum systems. Unlike classical information, which is encoded in bits that can only be 0 or 1, quantum information uses quantum bits or qubits that can exist simultaneously in multiple states because of superposition. Additionally, entanglement—a uniquely quantum linkage between particles—enables correlations that have no classical counterpart.

Title: Quantum supremacy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_supremacy
Excerpt: In quantum computing, quantum supremacy or quantum advantage is the goal of demonstrating that a programmable quantum computer can solve a problem that no classical computer can solve in any feasible amount of time, irrespective of the usefulness of the problem. The term was coined by John Preskill in 2011, but the concept dates to Yuri Manin's 1980 and Richard Feynman's 1981 proposals of quantum computing.
Conceptually, quantum supremacy involves both the engineering task of building a powerful quantum computer and the computational-complexity-theoretic task of finding a problem that can be solved by that quantum computer and has a superpolynomial speedup over the best known or possible classical algorithm for that task.
A notable property of quantum supremacy is that it can be feasibly achieved by near-term quantum computers, since it does not require a quantum computer to perform any useful task or use high-quality quantum error correction, both of which are long-term goals. Consequently, researchers view quantum supremacy as primarily a scientific goal, with relatively little immediate bearing on the future commercial viability of quantum computing. Due to unpredictable possible improvements in classical computers and algorithms, quantum supremacy may be temporary or unstable, placing possible achievements under significant scrutiny.
Examples of proposals to demonstrate quantum supremacy include the boson sampling proposal of Aaronson and Arkhipov, and sampling the output of random quantum circuits. The output distributions that are obtained by making measurements in boson sampling or quantum random circuit sampling are flat, but structured in a way so that one cannot classically efficiently sample from a distribution that is close to the distribution generated by the quantum experiment. For this conclusion to be valid, only very mild assumptions in the theory of computational complexity have to be invoked. In this sense, quantum random sampling schemes can have the potential to show quantum supremacy.