Title: Year 2038 problem
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem
Excerpt: The year 2038 problem (also known as Y2038, Y2K38, Y2K38 superbug, or the Epochalypse) is a time computing problem that leaves some computer systems unable to represent times after 03:14:07 UTC on 19 January 2038.
The problem exists in systems which measure Unix time—the number of seconds elapsed since the Unix epoch (00:00:00 UTC on 1 January 1970)—and store it in a signed 32-bit integer. When the data type's maximum value is exceeded, the integer will overflow to its minimum value, which systems will interpret as in the past. The problem resembles the year 2000 problem, which was caused by use of a fixed-width decimal (base-10) representation, whereas the year 2038 problem is caused by use of a fixed-width binary (base-2) representation.
Computer systems that use time for critical computations may encounter fatal errors if the year 2038 problem is not addressed. Some applications that use future dates have already encountered the bug. The most vulnerable systems are those which are infrequently or never updated, such as legacy and embedded systems. Modern systems and software updates address this problem by using signed 64-bit integers, which will take 292 billion years to overflow—approximately 21 times the estimated current age of the universe.

Title: Generation Z
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generation_Z
Excerpt: Generation Z, often shortened to Gen Z and informally known as Zoomers, is the demographic cohort succeeding Millennials and preceding Generation Alpha. Researchers and popular media use the mid-to-late 1990s as starting birth years and the early 2010s as ending birth years, with the generation typically being defined as people born from 1997 to 2012. Most members of Generation Z are the children of younger Baby Boomers, Generation X and older Millennials, and it is predicted that many will be the parents of members of younger Generation Alpha and Generation Beta.
As children in the mid-late 2000s and 2010s, Generation Z was the first social generation to grow up with Web 2.0 and digital technology as an established commodity. From a young age, they have watched online videos and web series (often via YouTube), and played online games. As adolescents and young adults in the 2010s and 2020s, members of the generation were dubbed "digital natives", even if they were not necessarily digitally literate and might struggle in a digital or virtual workplace.
Generation Z has been described as "better behaved and less hedonistic" than previous generations. They have fewer teenage pregnancies, consume less alcohol (but not necessarily less of other psychoactive drugs), and are more focused on school and job prospects. They are also better at delaying gratification than teens from the 1960s. Sexting became popular during Gen Z's adolescent years, although the long-term psychological effects are not yet fully understood.
There is greater awareness and diagnosis of mental health conditions among Generation Z, and sleep deprivation is more frequently reported. Moreover, the negative effects of screen time in the late 2010s were most pronounced in adolescents, as compared to younger children. Youth subcultures have not disappeared, but they have been quieter. Nostalgia is a major theme of youth culture in the 2010s and 2020s. Meanwhile, Generation Z has been active in politics around the world, taking advantage of social media for mobilization and communication.

Title: Time formatting and storage bugs
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_formatting_and_storage_bugs
Excerpt: In computer science, data type limitations and software bugs can cause errors in time and date calculation or display. These are most commonly manifestations of arithmetic overflow, but can also be the result of other issues. The best-known consequence of this type is the Y2K problem, but many other milestone dates or times exist that have caused or will cause problems depending on various programming deficiencies.

Title: Year 2000 problem
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2000_problem
Excerpt: The Year 2000 problem (Y2K) was the potential for computer errors on the Gregorian calendar related to the formatting and storage of calendar data for dates in and after the year 2000. Many programs represented four-digit years with only the final two digits, e.g. 1985 as 85, making the year 2000 indistinguishable from 1900. Computer systems' inability to distinguish dates correctly had the potential to bring down worldwide infrastructures for computer-reliant industries.
In the years leading up to the turn of the millennium, the public gradually became aware of the "Y2K scare", and individual companies predicted the global damage caused by the bug would require anything between $400 billion and $600 billion to rectify. A lack of clarity regarding the potential dangers of the bug led some to stock up on food, water, and firearms, purchase backup generators, and withdraw large sums of money in anticipation of a computer-induced apocalypse.
Contrary to published expectations, few major errors occurred in 2000. Supporters of the Y2K remediation effort argued that that was primarily due to the pre-emptive action of many computer programmers and information technology experts. Companies and organizations in some countries, but not all, had checked, fixed, and upgraded their computer systems to address the problem. U.S. President Bill Clinton, who organized efforts to minimize the damage in the United States, labelled Y2K as "the first challenge of the 21st century successfully met", and retrospectives on the event typically commend the programmers who worked to avert the anticipated disaster.
Critics argued that even in countries where very little had been done to ready software, problems were minimal. The same was true in sectors such as schools and small businesses, where compliance with Y2K policies was inconsistent at best.

Title: The Day of...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Day_of...
Excerpt: "The Day of..." is a single by the Finnish symphonic metal band Nightwish, the second from their tenth studio album, Yesterwynde. It was released on 8 August 2024. A music video for the single was released on 13 August 2024.