Title: Synthetic biology
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synthetic_biology
Excerpt: Synthetic biology (SynBio) is a multidisciplinary scientific field that applies the principles of engineering to develop new biological parts, devices, and systems or to redesign existing systems found in nature. The field encompasses a broad range of methodologies from various disciplines, such as biochemistry, biotechnology, biomaterials, material science/engineering, genetic engineering, molecular biology, molecular engineering, systems biology, membrane science, biophysics, chemical and biological engineering, electrical and computer engineering, control engineering and evolutionary biology.
It includes designing and constructing biological modules, biological systems, and biological machines, or re-designing existing biological systems for useful purposes.
Additionally, it is the branch of science that focuses on the new abilities of engineering into existing organisms to redesign them for useful purposes.
In order to produce predictable and robust systems with novel functionalities that do not already exist in nature, it is also necessary to apply the engineering paradigm of systems design to biological systems. According to the European Commission, this possibly involves a molecular assembler based on biomolecular systems such as the ribosome.

Title: Citizen science
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Citizen_science
Excerpt: Citizen science is research conducted with the participation of the general public, amateur or nonprofessional researchers, or participants from the fields of science, social science, and many other disciplines. The exact definition of "citizen science" varies, with different individuals and organizations having their own specific interpretations of its scope. Citizen science is employed in a wide range of areas of study, including ecology, biology, conservation, health and medical research, astronomy, media and communications, and information science.
The applications and functions of citizen science in research projects are multifaceted. Citizen science can be used as a methodology in which public volunteers help in data collection and classification, thereby improving the scientific community's capacity.  Citizen science observations can be used to uncover general trends in native habitats across broad spatial and temporal scales, extending data collection beyond the capacity of individual researchers. These observations can then be integrated with findings from designed experiments to provide a more complete understanding of natural variation and ecological processes. Citizen science can also involve more direct involvement from the public, with communities initiating projects researching environment and health hazards within their own communities. Participation in citizen science projects also educates the public about the scientific process and increases awareness about different topics. Some schools incorporate citizen science projects as part of their teaching curricula for this very purpose. More recently, libraries have also emerged as community hubs for citizen science.

Title: Wikipedia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia
Excerpt: Wikipedia is a free online encyclopedia written and maintained by a community of volunteers, known as Wikipedians, through open collaboration and the wiki software MediaWiki. Founded by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger in 2001, Wikipedia has been hosted since 2003 by the Wikimedia Foundation, an American nonprofit organization funded mainly by donations from readers. Wikipedia is the largest and most read reference work in history.
Initially available only in English, Wikipedia has grown to over 300 languages and is one of the world's most visited websites as of 2026. The English Wikipedia, with over 7 million articles, remains the largest of the editions, which together comprise more than 68 million articles and attract more than 1.5 billion unique device visits and 13 million edits per month (about five edits per second on average)  as of April 2024. As of December 2025, over 25% of Wikipedia's traffic comes from the United States, while Japan accounts for nearly 7%, and the United Kingdom, Germany, and Russia each represent around 5%.
Wikipedia has been praised for its internal structure and culture, enabling the democratization of knowledge, and for its extensive coverage on various topics. Wikipedia has been censored by some national governments, ranging from specific pages to the entire site, sometimes due to its criticism of the government or for content otherwise considered blasphemous. The encyclopedia has also been criticized for systemic bias, such as a gender bias against women and a geographical bias against the Global South. The reliability of Wikipedia was frequently criticized in the 2000s, but has received greater praise from the late 2010s onward. Wikipedia articles on breaking news are frequently accessed as sources for up-to-date information by many.

Title: 2022 in science
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_in_science
Excerpt: The following scientific events occurred in 2022.

Title: April–June 2020 in science
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/April%E2%80%93June_2020_in_science
Excerpt: This article lists a number of significant events in science that have occurred in the second quarter of 2020.