Title: Vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vaccine
Excerpt: A vaccine is a biological preparation that provides active acquired immunity to a particular infectious or malignant disease. The safety and effectiveness of vaccines has been widely studied and verified. A vaccine typically contains an agent that resembles a disease-causing microorganism and is often made from weakened or killed forms of the microbe, its toxins, or one of its surface proteins. The agent stimulates the immune system to recognize the agent as a threat, destroy it, and recognize further and destroy any of the microorganisms associated with that agent that it may encounter in the future.
Vaccines can be prophylactic (to prevent or alleviate the effects of a future infection by a natural or "wild" pathogen), or therapeutic (to fight a disease that has already occurred, such as cancer). Some vaccines offer full sterilizing immunity, in which infection is prevented.
The administration of vaccines is called vaccination. Vaccination is the most effective method of preventing infectious diseases; widespread immunity due to vaccination is largely responsible for the worldwide eradication of smallpox and the restriction of diseases such as polio, measles, and tetanus from much of the world. The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that licensed vaccines are available for twenty-five different preventable infections.
The first recorded use of inoculation to prevent smallpox (see variolation) occurred in the 16th century in China, with the earliest hints of the practice in China coming during the 10th century. It was also the first disease for which a vaccine was produced. The folk practice of inoculation against smallpox was brought from Turkey to Britain in 1721 by Lady Mary Wortley Montagu.
The terms vaccine and vaccination are derived from Variolae vaccinae (smallpox of the cow), the term devised by Edward Jenner (who both developed the concept of vaccines and created the first vaccine) to denote cowpox. He used the phrase in 1798 for the long title of his Inquiry into the Variolae vaccinae Known as the Cow Pox, in which he described the protective effect of cowpox against smallpox. In 1881, to honor Jenner, Louis Pasteur proposed that the terms should be extended to cover the new protective inoculations then being developed. The science of vaccine development and production is termed vaccinology.

Title: DPT vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DPT_vaccine
Excerpt: The DPT vaccine or DTP vaccine is a class of combination vaccines to protect against three infectious diseases in humans: diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough), and tetanus (lockjaw). The vaccine components include diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, and either killed whole cells of the bacterium that causes pertussis or pertussis antigens. The term toxoid refers to vaccines which use an inactivated toxin produced by the pathogen which they are targeted against to generate an immune response. In this way, the toxoid vaccine generates an immune response which is targeted against the toxin which is produced by the pathogen and causes disease, rather than a vaccine which is targeted against the pathogen itself. The whole cells or antigens will be depicted as either "DTwP" or "DTaP", where the lower-case "w" indicates whole-cell inactivated pertussis and the lower-case "a" stands for "acellular". In comparison to alternative vaccine types, such as live attenuated vaccines, the DTP vaccine does not contain any live pathogen, but rather uses inactivated toxoid (and for pertussis, either a dead pathogen or pure antigens) to generate an immune response; therefore, there is not a risk of use in populations that are immune compromised since there is not any known risk of causing the disease itself. As a result, the DTP vaccine is considered a safe vaccine to use in anyone and it generates a much more targeted immune response specific for the pathogen of interest.
In the United States, the DPT (whole-cell) vaccine was administered as part of the childhood vaccines recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) until 1996, when the acellular DTaP vaccine was licensed for use.

Title: HPV vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HPV_vaccine
Excerpt: Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines are vaccines intended to provide acquired immunity against infection by certain types of human papillomavirus. The first HPV vaccine became available in 2006. Currently there are six licensed HPV vaccines: three bivalent (protect against two types of HPV), two quadrivalent (against four), and one nonavalent vaccine (against nine). All have excellent safety profiles and are highly efficacious, or have met immunobridging standards. All of them protect against HPV types 16 and 18, which are together responsible for approximately 70% of cervical cancer cases globally. The quadrivalent vaccines provide additional protection against HPV types 6 and 11. The nonavalent one provides additional protection against HPV types 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58. It is estimated that HPV vaccines may prevent 70% of cervical cancer, 80% of anal cancer, 60% of vaginal cancer, 40% of vulvar cancer, and show more than 90% effectiveness in preventing HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancers. They also protect against penile cancer. They additionally prevent genital warts (also known as anogenital warts), with the quadrivalent and nonavalent vaccines providing virtually complete protection. The WHO recommends a one or two-dose schedule for girls aged 9–14 years, the same for girls and women aged 15–20 years, and two doses with a six-month interval for women older than 21 years. The vaccines provide protection for at least five to ten years.
The primary target group in most of the countries recommending HPV vaccination is young adolescent girls, aged 9–14. The vaccination schedule depends on the age of the vaccine recipient. As of 2023, 27% of girls aged 9–14 years worldwide received at least one dose (37 countries were implementing the single-dose schedule, 45% of girls aged 9–14 years old vaccinated in that year). As of September 2024, 57 countries are implementing the single-dose schedule. At least 144 countries (at least 74% of WHO member states) provided the HPV vaccine in their national immunization schedule for girls, as of November 2024. As of 2022, 47 countries (24% of WHO member states) also did it for boys. Vaccinating a large portion of the population may also benefit the unvaccinated by way of herd immunity.
The HPV vaccine is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends HPV vaccines as part of routine vaccinations in all countries, along with other prevention measures. The WHO's priority purpose of HPV immunization is the prevention of cervical cancer, which accounts for 82% of all HPV-related cancers and more than 95% of which are caused by HPV. Of cervical cancers, 88% (2020 figure) occur and 90% of deaths occur in low- and middle-income countries and 2% (2020 figure) in high-income countries. The WHO-recommended primary target population for HPV vaccination is girls aged 9–14 years before they become sexually active. It aims the introduction of the HPV vaccine in all countries and has set a target of reaching a coverage of 90% of girls fully vaccinated with HPV vaccine by age 15 years. Females aged ≥15 years, boys, older males or men who have sex with men (MSM) are secondary target populations. HPV vaccination is the most cost-effective public health measure against cervical cancer, particularly in resource-constrained settings. Cervical cancer screening is still required following vaccination.

Title: Rabies vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rabies_vaccine
Excerpt: A rabies vaccine is a vaccine used to prevent rabies. There are several rabies vaccines available that are both safe and effective. Vaccinations must be administered prior to rabies virus exposure or within the latent period after exposure to prevent the disease. Transmission of rabies virus to humans typically occurs through a bite or scratch from an infectious animal, but exposure can occur through indirect contact with the saliva from an infectious individual.
Doses are usually given by injection into the skin or muscle. After exposure, the vaccination is typically used along with rabies immunoglobulin. It is recommended that those who are at high risk of exposure be vaccinated before potential exposure. Rabies vaccines are effective in humans and other animals, and vaccinating dogs is very effective in preventing the spread of rabies to humans. A long-lasting immunity to the virus develops after a full course of treatment.
Rabies vaccines may be used safely by all age groups. About 35 to 45 percent of people develop a brief period of redness and pain at the injection site, and 5 to 15 percent of people may experience fever, headaches, or nausea. After exposure to rabies, there is no contraindication to its use, because the untreated virus is virtually 100% fatal.
The first rabies vaccine was introduced in 1885 and was followed by an improved version in 1908. Over 29 million people worldwide receive human rabies vaccine annually. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines.

Title: Anti-vaccine activism
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-vaccine_activism
Excerpt: Anti-vaccine activism, which collectively constitutes the "anti-vax" or "anti-vaxx" movement, is a set of organized activities expressing opposition to vaccination. These collaborating networks often seek to increase vaccine hesitancy by disseminating vaccine misinformation and disinformation. As a social movement, it employs tools ranging from traditional news media to various forms of online communication. Activists have primarily—though not exclusively—focused on opposing childhood vaccination, and have sought to expand their influence from niche subgroups into national political debates.
Ideas that later coalesced into anti-vaccine activism predate vaccines themselves. The movement, along with fringe doctors, has propagated various myths and conspiracy theories, alongside misinformation and disinformation. These efforts have significantly increased vaccine hesitancy and influenced public policy regarding the ethical, legal, and medical aspects of vaccination. In contrast, there is no substantive debate or hesitancy within mainstream medical circles about the benefits of vaccination; the scientific consensus is "clear and unambiguous" in favor of vaccines. Despite this consensus, the anti-vaccine movement has been partially successful in distorting the public understanding of science in popular culture.