Title: Mining
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mining
Excerpt: Mining is the extraction of geological materials and minerals from Earth's surface. Mining is required to obtain most materials that cannot be grown through agricultural processes, or feasibly made artificially in a laboratory or factory. Ores recovered by mining include metals, coal, oil shale, gemstones, limestone, chalk, dimension stone, rock salt, potash, gravel, and clay. The ore must be a rock or mineral that contains a valuable constituent, can be extracted or mined, and sold for profit. Mining in a wider sense includes extraction of any non-renewable resource such as petroleum, natural gas, or even water.
Mining is also associated with a range of environmental, health, and social impacts. Mining activities contribute to land degradation, water contamination, and habitat loss. In addition to environmental impacts, mining has been linked to occupational health risks and community displacement, and has affected low-income and marginalized populations.
Modern mining processes involve prospecting for ore bodies, analysis of the profit potential of a proposed mine, extraction of the desired materials, and final reclamation or restoration of the land after the mine is closed. Mining materials are often obtained from ore bodies, lodes, veins, seams, reefs, or placer deposits. The exploitation of these deposits for raw materials is dependent on investment, labor, energy, refining, and transportation costs.
Mining operations can have negative environmental impacts, both during mining and after the mine closes. Hence, most of the world's nations have enacted regulations to reduce the impact; however, the outsized role of mining in generating business for often rural, remote, or economically depressed communities means that governments frequently fail to enforce them fully.
Work safety has long been a concern as well, and where enforced, modern practices have significantly improved safety in mines. Unregulated, poorly regulated or illegal mining, especially in developing economies, frequently contributes to local human rights violations and environmental conflicts. Mining can also perpetuate political instability through resource conflicts.

Title: Lithium-ion battery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithium-ion_battery
Excerpt: A lithium-ion battery or Li-ion battery is a type of rechargeable battery that uses the reversible intercalation of lithium ions (Li+) into electronically conducting solids to store energy. There are many different varieties, which are usually categorized by the materials used in the cathode. Compared to other rechargeable battery types, they generally have higher specific energy, energy density, and energy efficiency and a longer cycle life and calendar life. In the three decades since Li-ion batteries were first sold in 1991, their volumetric energy density increased threefold while their cost dropped tenfold. In late 2024, global demand passed 1 terawatt-hour per year, while production capacity was more than twice that.
The invention and commercialization of Li-ion batteries has had a large impact on technology, as recognized by the 2019 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, which was awarded to contributors to the development of Li-ion batteries. Li-ion batteries have enabled portable consumer electronics, laptop computers, cellular phones, and electric cars. They are used for grid-scale energy storage and in military and aerospace applications. Li-ion battery sizes are generally not standardised (e.g. in the spirit of the AA battery) and they come in various and unique form factors depending on device and vendor. They typically have a nominal voltage of 3.6 or 3.7 V.
M. Stanley Whittingham conceived intercalation electrodes in the 1970s and created the first rechargeable lithium-ion battery, based on a titanium disulfide cathode and a lithium-aluminium anode, although it suffered from safety problems and was never commercialized. John Goodenough expanded on this work in 1980 by using lithium cobalt oxide as a cathode. The first prototype of the modern Li-ion battery, which uses a carbonaceous anode rather than lithium metal, was developed by Akira Yoshino in 1985 and commercialized by a Sony and Asahi Kasei team led by Yoshio Nishi in 1991. Whittingham, Goodenough, and Yoshino were awarded the 2019 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their contributions to the development of lithium-ion batteries.
Lithium-ion batteries can be a fire or explosion hazard as they contain flammable electrolytes. Progress has been made in the development and manufacturing of safer lithium-ion batteries. Lithium-ion solid-state batteries are being developed to eliminate the flammable electrolyte. Lithium and other minerals can have significant issues in mining, with lithium being water intensive in often arid regions and other minerals used in some Li-ion chemistries potentially being conflict minerals such as cobalt. Environmental issues have encouraged some researchers to improve mineral efficiency and find alternatives such as lithium iron phosphate lithium-ion chemistries or non-lithium-based battery chemistries such as sodium-ion and iron-air batteries.
Lithium-ion cells can be manufactured to optimize energy density or power density. Handheld electronics mostly use lithium polymer batteries (with a polymer gel as an electrolyte), a lithium cobalt oxide (LiCoO2) cathode material, and a graphite anode, which together offer high energy density. Lithium iron phosphate (LiFePO4), lithium manganese oxide (LiMn2O4 spinel, or Li2MnO3-based lithium-rich layered materials, LMR-NMC), and lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide (LiNiMnCoO2 or NMC) may offer longer life and a higher discharge rate. NMC and its derivatives are widely used in the electrification of transport, one of the main technologies (combined with renewable energy) for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles. Lithium nickel cobalt aluminum oxide (NCA) is another high-energy lithium-ion chemistry commonly used in electric vehicle batteries.

Title: Data center
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_center
Excerpt: A data center is a physical room, building, or facility for storing, managing, and disseminating data and information, including computer systems and associated components, housing IT infrastructure, and training artificial intelligence. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 defines a data center as "any facility that primarily contains electronic equipment used to process, store, and transmit digital information." This includes "a free-standing structure" or "a facility within a larger structure, that uses environmental control equipment to maintain the proper conditions for the operation of electronic equipment." According to IBM, data centers date back to the 1940s, with the U.S. military's Electrical Numerical Integrator and Computer (ENIAC) as an early example. 
Data centers have different models depending on their workloads. An enterprise (on-premises) model hosts IT infrastructure and data on-premises, while cloud data centers, including hyperscale data centers, house IT infrastructure resources through an internet connection used by cloud service providers such as Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Platform, IBM Cloud, and Microsoft Azure. They frequently contain thousands of servers and many miles of high-speed data connection equipment, with the largest occupying up to 10,000,000 sq ft (930,000 m2). Managed service data centers have third-party managers hired on behalf of a company, which leases the equipment and infrastructure instead of buying it. Colocation data centers allow companies to rent space in an off-site data center owned by others, with the colocation data center hosting the infrastructure while the company provides and manages the components. Edge data centers are smaller, decentralized facilities located closer to end users and devices. In the 2024 U.S. Data Center Energy Usage Report, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory estimated that hyperscale and colocation centers contained 74% of computer servers in 2023. 
Large data centers require significant energy to operate, with the largest consuming over 3,000 MW, raising concerns about energy use. The International Energy Agency (IEA) estimated that electricity consumption from these data centers amounted to around 415 terawatt hours (TWh), about 1.5% of global electricity consumption in 2024, with a growth rate of 12% per year over the previous five years. The IEA projects that this amount could double to reach around 945 TWh by 2030, growing by around 15% per year. In the U.S. alone, which has almost nine times more data centers than any other country, power consumption by data centers is projected to account for "almost half of the growth in electricity demand between now and 2030." This includes increased electricity costs.
Concerns over environmental impacts, energy and water use, and other costs have led to opposition to new data centers during the AI boom. These movements have occurred in parts of Europe, the U.S., and South America. Data Center Watch's first report covered a period from May 2024 to March 2025, during which it found that "local opposition had blocked or delayed a total of $64 billion in data center projects (six projects were blocked entirely, while 10 were delayed)."

Title: Electronic waste
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_waste
Excerpt: Electronic waste (e-waste) describes discarded electrical or electronic devices. It is also commonly known as waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) or end-of-life (EOL) electronics. Electronic waste is one of the fastest-growing waste streams globally, driven by rapid technological advancement and increasing consumption of electronic devices. In 2022, approximately 62 million tonnes of electronic waste were generated globally, making it one of the fastest growing waste streams; only 22.3% were formally collected and recycled. Global e-waste generation is projected to reach 82 million tonnes by 2030. Used electronics which are destined for refurbishment, reuse, resale, salvage recycling through material recovery, or disposal are also considered e-waste. Informal processing of e-waste in developing countries can lead to adverse human health effects and environmental pollution. The growing consumption of electronic goods due to the Digital Revolution and innovations in science and technology, such as bitcoin, has led to a global e-waste problem and hazard. The rapid exponential increase in e-waste is due to frequent new-model releases, unnecessary purchases of electrical and electronic equipment (EEE), short innovation cycles, low recycling rates, and a drop in the average lifespan of computers.
Electronic scrap components, such as CPUs, contain potentially harmful materials such as lead, cadmium, beryllium, or brominated flame retardants. Recycling and disposal of e-waste may involve significant risk to the health of workers and their communities.

Title: Battery recycling
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battery_recycling
Excerpt: Battery recycling is a recycling activity that aims to reduce the number of batteries being disposed as municipal solid waste. Batteries contain a number of heavy metals and toxic chemicals and disposing of them by the same process as regular household waste has raised concerns over soil contamination and water pollution. While reducing the amount of pollutants being released through disposal through the uses of landfill and incineration, battery recycling can facilitate the release of harmful materials from batteries to both the environment and the workers recycling batteries.