Title: Mediterranean Sea
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mediterranean_Sea
Excerpt: The Mediterranean Sea ( MED-ih-tə-RAY-nee-ən) is an intercontinental sea situated between Europe, Asia, and Africa. It is surrounded by the Mediterranean basin and almost completely enclosed by land: on the east by the Levant in West Asia, on the north by Anatolia in West Asia and Southern Europe, and on the south by North Africa. To its west it is connected to the Atlantic Ocean via the Strait of Gibraltar that separates the Iberian Peninsula in Europe from Morocco in Africa by only 14 km (9 mi); additionally, it is connected to the Black Sea through the Bosporus strait that intersects Turkey in the northeast and the Red Sea via the Suez Canal in the southeast.
The Mediterranean Sea covers an area of about 2,500,000 km2 (970,000 sq mi), representing 0.7% of the global ocean surface; it includes fifteen marginal seas, including the Aegean, Adriatic, Tyrrhenian, and Marmara. Geological evidence indicates that around 5.9 million years ago, the Mediterranean was cut off from the Atlantic and was partly or completely desiccated over a period of some 600,000 years during the Messinian salinity crisis before being refilled by the Zanclean flood about 5.3 million years ago.
The history of the Mediterranean region is crucial to understanding the origins and development of many modern societies; it is sometimes described as an "incubator of Western civilization" and saw the emergence of some of the earliest and most advanced civilisations, including those of Egypt, Greece, and the Fertile Crescent. The Levant in the Eastern Mediterranean was among the first regions in the world to display permanent human habitation as early as 12,000 BC. The Mediterranean Sea was an important route for merchants, travellers, and migrants in antiquity, facilitating trade and cultural exchange between various peoples as well as colonisation and conquest. The Roman Empire maintained nautical hegemony over the sea for centuries and is the only state to have ever controlled all of its coast.
The Mediterranean Sea has an average depth of 1,500 m (4,900 ft) and the deepest recorded point is 5,109 ± 1 m (16,762 ± 3 ft) in the Calypso Deep in the Ionian Sea. It lies between latitudes 30° and 46° N and longitudes 6° W and 36° E. Its west–east length, from the Strait of Gibraltar to the Gulf of Alexandretta, on the southeastern coast of Turkey, is about 4,000 kilometres (2,500 mi). The north–south length varies greatly between different shorelines and whether only straight routes are considered. Also including longitudinal changes, the shortest shipping route between the multinational Gulf of Trieste and the Libyan coastline of the Gulf of Sidra is about 1,900 kilometres (1,200 mi). The water temperatures are mild in winter and warm in summer and give name to the Mediterranean climate type due to the majority of precipitation falling in the cooler months. Its southern and eastern coastlines are lined with hot deserts not far inland, but the immediate coastline on all sides of the Mediterranean tends to have strong maritime moderation.
The countries surrounding the Mediterranean and its marginal seas in clockwise order are Spain, France, Monaco, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Albania, Greece, Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Palestine (Gaza Strip), Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, and Morocco; Cyprus and Malta are island countries in the sea. In addition, Northern Cyprus (de facto state) and two overseas territories of the United Kingdom (Akrotiri and Dhekelia, and Gibraltar) also have coastlines along the Mediterranean Sea. The drainage basin encompasses a large number of other countries, the Nile being the longest river ending in the Mediterranean Sea. The Mediterranean Sea encompasses a vast number of islands, some of them of volcanic origin. The two largest islands, in both area and population, are Sicily and Sardinia.

Title: Sea of Azov
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sea_of_Azov
Excerpt: The Sea of Azov is an inland shelf sea in Eastern Europe connected to the Black Sea by the narrow (about 4 km (2.5 mi)) Strait of Kerch, and sometimes regarded as a northern extension of the Black Sea. The sea is bounded by Russia on the east, and by Ukraine on the northwest and southwest (the parts of Ukraine bordering the sea have been under Russian occupation since 2022). It is an important access route for Central Asia, from the Caspian Sea via the Volga–Don Canal.
The sea is largely affected by the inflow of the Don, Kuban, and other rivers, which bring sand, silt, and shells, which in turn form numerous bays, limans, and narrow spits. Because of these deposits, the sea bottom is relatively smooth and flat, with the depth gradually increasing toward the middle. Because of the river inflow, water in the sea has low salinity and a high amount of biomass (such as green algae) that affects the water colour. Abundant plankton result in unusually high fish productivity. The sea shores and spits are low; they are rich in vegetation and bird colonies. The Sea of Azov is the shallowest sea in the world, with the depth varying between 0.9 and 14 metres (3 and 46 ft). There is a constant outflow of water from the Sea of Azov to the Black Sea.

Title: Congestion pricing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Congestion_pricing
Excerpt: Congestion pricing or congestion charges is a system of surcharging users of public goods that are subject to congestion through excess demand, such as through higher peak charges for use of bus services, electricity, metros, railways, telephones, and road pricing to reduce traffic congestion; airlines and shipping companies may be charged higher fees for slots at airports and through canals at busy times. This pricing strategy regulates demand, making it possible to manage congestion without increasing supply.
According to the economic theory behind congestion pricing, the objective of this policy is to use the price mechanism to cover the social cost of an activity where users otherwise do not pay for the negative externalities they create (such as driving in a congested area during peak demand). By setting a price on an over-consumed product, congestion pricing encourages the redistribution of the demand in space or in time, leading to more efficient outcomes.
Singapore was the first country to introduce congestion pricing on its urban roads in 1975, and was refined in 1998. Since then, it has been implemented in cities including London, Durham, England, Stockholm, Gothenburg, Milan, and New York City. In the United States, it was also considered in Washington, D.C., San Francisco, and Boston prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Outside of the United States, congestion pricing programs have been piloted or proposed in Bangkok, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Switzerland, and Hong Kong in the 1980s and since 2018.
Greater awareness of the harms of pollution and emissions of greenhouse gases in the context of climate change has recently created greater interest in congestion pricing. Implementation of congestion pricing has reduced traffic congestion in urban areas, reduced pollution, reduced asthma, and increased home values, but has also sparked criticism and political discontent.
There is a consensus among economists that congestion pricing in crowded transportation networks, and subsequent use of the proceeds to lower other taxes, makes citizens on average better off. Economists disagree over how to set tolls, how to cover common costs, what to do with any excess revenues, whether and how "losers" from tolling previously free roads should be compensated, and whether to privatize highways.

Title: Economy of India
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_India
Excerpt: India has a developing market-oriented economy with substantial state participation in strategic sectors. It is the world's sixth-largest economy by nominal GDP and the third-largest by purchasing power parity (PPP) as of April 2026. On a per capita income basis, the nation is ranked 149th by nominal GDP and 119th by PPP-adjusted GDP as of 2026. From independence in 1947 until 1991, economic development was characterized by protectionist economic policies, with extensive state intervention, demand-side economics, natural resource optimization, and regulation. An acute balance of payments crisis in 1991 led to the adoption of broad economic liberalisation in India and indicative planning.
Nearly 70% of India's GDP is driven by domestic consumption, with the nation consistently the world's third-largest consumer market. As of 2025, the service sector accounts for around 55% of GDP. Aside from private consumption, India's GDP is fueled by government spending, investments, and exports. As of 2025, India is the world's 7th-largest importer and the 10th-largest exporter. India is often described as the "pharmacy of the world", supplying around one-fifth of global demand for pharmaceuticals to over 200 countries. India is the largest vaccine manufacturer globally by volume, accounting for over 60% of the world's production. India is the world's fifth-largest manufacturer, representing 3.2% of global manufacturing output. India's digital economy was estimated to be 11.7% of GDP, with its total value expected to surpass US$1 trillion by 2029. Nearly 63% of India's population lives in rural areas, and generates about 46% of Indian GDP.
India has been a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) since 1995. It ranks 41st on the Global Competitiveness Index and 39th in the Global Innovation Index. As of 2025, India ranks third in the world in total number of billionaires. India's Gini coefficient fell to 25.5 by 2023, making it the fourth-most equal country globally, suggesting significant progress in income equality. Economists and social scientists often consider India a welfare state. India's overall social welfare spending stood at 8.6% of GDP in 2022. It has two of the world's ten largest stock exchanges. India has free-trade agreements with many world nations, including the European Union, and is a member of numerous economic organisations. India is a lower-middle income country with much of its modern economic development focused on improving standards of living for its population, which has been the largest in the world since the mid-2020s. The accuracy of Indian economic and inflation data has been challenged by the IMF for not suitably incorporating the informal sector and consumption.

Title: Maritime history of California
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maritime_history_of_California
Excerpt: The maritime history of California can be divided into several periods: the Native American period; European exploration period from 1542 to 1769; the Spanish colonial period, 1769 to 1821; the Mexican period, 1821 to 1847; and United States statehood period, which continues to the present day. In the history of the California coast, the use of ships and the Pacific Ocean has historically included water craft (such as dugouts, canoes, sailing ships, and steamships), fisheries, shipbuilding, Gold Rush shipping, ports, shipwrecks, naval ships and installations, and lighthouses.