Title: Effects of climate change
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Effects_of_climate_change
Excerpt: Effects of climate change are well documented and growing for Earth's natural environment and human societies. Changes to the climate system include an overall warming trend, changes to precipitation patterns, and more extreme weather. As the climate changes it impacts the natural environment with effects such as more intense forest fires, thawing permafrost, and desertification. These changes impact ecosystems and societies, and can become irreversible once tipping points are crossed. Climate activists are engaged in a range of activities around the world that seek to ameliorate these issues or prevent them from happening. 
The effects of climate change vary in timing and location. Up until now the Arctic has warmed faster than most other regions due to climate change feedbacks. Surface air temperatures over land have also increased at about twice the rate they do over the ocean, causing intense heat waves. These temperatures would stabilize if greenhouse gas emissions were brought under control. Ice sheets and oceans absorb the vast majority of excess heat in the atmosphere, delaying effects there but causing them to accelerate and then continue after surface temperatures stabilize. Sea level rise is a particular long term concern as a result. The effects of ocean warming also include marine heatwaves, ocean stratification, deoxygenation, and changes to ocean currents. The ocean is also acidifying as it absorbs carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.  

The ecosystems most immediately threatened by climate change are in the mountains, coral reefs, and the Arctic. Excess heat is causing environmental changes in those locations that exceed the ability of animals to adapt. Species are escaping heat by migrating towards the poles and to higher ground when they can. Sea level rise threatens coastal wetlands with flooding. Decreases in soil moisture in certain locations can cause desertification and damage ecosystems like the Amazon rainforest. At 2 °C (3.6 °F) of warming, around 10% of species on land would become critically endangered.
Humans are vulnerable to climate change in many ways. Sources of food and fresh water can be threatened by environmental changes. Human health can be impacted by weather extremes or by ripple effects like the spread of infectious diseases. Economic impacts include changes to agriculture, fisheries, and forestry. Higher temperatures will increasingly prevent outdoor labor in tropical latitudes due to heat stress. Island nations and coastal cities may be inundated by rising sea levels. Some groups of people may be particularly at risk from climate change, such as the poor, children, and indigenous peoples. Industrialised countries, which have emitted the vast majority of CO2, have more resources to adapt to global warming than developing nations do. Cumulative effects and extreme weather events can lead to displacement and migration.

Title: Climate change adaptation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Climate_change_adaptation
Excerpt: Climate change adaptation is the process of adjusting to the effects of climate change, both current and anticipated. Adaptation aims to moderate or avoid harm for people, and is usually done alongside climate change mitigation. It also aims to exploit opportunities. Adaptation can involve interventions to help natural systems cope with changes.
Adaptation can help manage impacts and risks to people and nature. The four types of adaptation actions are infrastructural, institutional, behavioural and nature-based options. Some examples are building seawalls or inland flood defenses, providing new insurance schemes, changing crop planting times or varieties, and installing green roofs or green spaces. Adaptation can be reactive (responding to climate impacts as they happen) or proactive (taking steps in anticipation of future climate change).
The need for adaptation varies from place to place. Adaptation measures vary by region and community, depending on specific climate impacts and vulnerabilities. Worldwide, people living in rural areas are more exposed to food insecurity owing to limited access to food and financial resources. For instance, coastal regions might prioritize sea-level rise defenses and mangrove restoration. Arid areas could focus on water scarcity solutions, land restoration and heat management. The needs for adaptation will also depend on how much the climate changes or is expected to change. Adaptation is particularly important in developing countries because they are most vulnerable to climate change. Adaptation needs are high for food, water and other sectors important for economic output, jobs and incomes. One of the challenges is to prioritize the needs of communities, including the poorest, to help ensure they are not disproportionately affected by climate change. 
Adaptation plans, policies or strategies are in place in more than 70% of countries. 
Recent research indicates that while global awareness and planning for climate change adaptation have increased, the actual implementation of adaptation measures remains limited and uneven across regions. Agreements like the Paris Agreement encourage countries to develop adaptation plans. Other levels of government like cities and provinces also use adaptation planning. So do economic sectors. Donor countries can give money to developing countries to help develop national adaptation plans. Effective adaptation is not always autonomous; it requires substantial planning, coordination, and foresight. Studies have identified key barriers such as knowledge gaps, behavioral resistance, and market failures that slow down adaptation progress and require strategic policy intervention. Addressing these issues is crucial to prevent long-term vulnerabilities, especially in urban planning and infrastructure investments that determine resilience to climate impacts. Furthermore, adaptation is deeply connected to economic development, with decisions in industrial strategy and urban infrastructure shaping future climate vulnerability.

Title: Microplastics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microplastics
Excerpt: Microplastics are "synthetic solid particulate matter or polymeric matrices, with regular or irregular shape and with size ranging from 1 μm to 5 mm, of either primary or secondary manufacturing origin, which are insoluble in water." Microplastics cause pollution by entering natural ecosystems from a variety of sources, including cosmetics, clothing, construction, renovation, food packaging, and industrial processes. However, there are different microplastic remediation strategies that can help mitigate the effects of plastic pollution. 
The term microplastics is used to differentiate them from larger, non-microscopic plastic waste. Two classifications of microplastics are currently recognized. Primary microplastics include any plastic fragments or particles that are already 5 mm in size or less before entering the environment. These include microfibers from clothing, microbeads, plastic glitter and plastic pellets (also known as nurdles). Secondary microplastics arise from the degradation (breakdown) of larger plastic products through natural weathering processes after entering the environment. Such sources of secondary microplastics include water and soda bottles, fishing nets, plastic bags, microwave containers, tea bags and tire wear.
Both types are recognized to persist in the environment at high levels, particularly in aquatic and marine ecosystems, where they are considered water pollution.  It is estimated that by 2050, the weight of microplastics in the sea will exceed that of the fish.
Microplastics also accumulate in the air and terrestrial ecosystems. Airborne microplastics have been detected in the atmosphere, as well as indoors and outdoors. 
Because some plastics degrade slowly (often over hundreds to thousands of years), microplastics have a high probability of ingestion, incorporation into, and accumulation in the bodies and tissues of many organisms. In terrestrial ecosystems, microplastics have been demonstrated to lower the viability of soil ecosystems.
Microplastics are likely to degrade into smaller nanoplastics through chemical weathering processes, mechanical breakdown, and even through the digestive processes of animals. Nanoplastics are a subset of microplastics and are smaller than 1 μm (1 micrometer, or 1000 nm). Nanoplastics cannot be seen by the human eye.

Title: 2021 in science
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2021_in_science
Excerpt: This is a list of several significant scientific events that occurred or were scheduled to occur in 2021.