Title: Deforestation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deforestation
Excerpt: Deforestation or forest clearance is the removal and destruction of a forest or stand of trees from land that is then converted to non-forest use. Deforestation can involve conversion of forest land to farms, ranches, or urban use. About 31% of Earth's land surface is covered by forests at present. This is one-third less than the forest cover before the expansion of agriculture, with half of that loss occurring in the last century. On average 2,400 trees are cut down each minute. Estimates vary widely as to the extent of deforestation in the tropics. In 2019, nearly a third of the overall tree cover loss, or 3.8 million hectares, occurred within humid tropical primary forests. These are areas of mature rainforest that are especially important for biodiversity and carbon storage.
By far, the direct cause of most deforestation is agriculture. In 2025 nearly 90% of global deforestation was caused by agriculture, with cropland expansion and pasture creation the primary drivers, this is up from more than 80% in 2012. Forests are being converted to plantations for coffee, palm oil, rubber and various other popular products. Livestock grazing also drives deforestation. Further drivers are the wood industry (logging), urbanization and mining. The effects of climate change are another cause via the increased risk of wildfires (see deforestation and climate change).
Deforestation results in habitat destruction which in turn leads to biodiversity loss. Deforestation also leads to extinction of animals and plants, changes to the local climate, and displacement of indigenous people who live in forests. Deforested regions often also suffer from other environmental problems such as desertification and soil erosion.
Another problem is that deforestation reduces the uptake of carbon dioxide (carbon sequestration) from the atmosphere. This reduces the potential of forests to assist with climate change mitigation. The role of forests in capturing and storing carbon and mitigating climate change is also important for the agricultural sector. The reason for this linkage is that the effects of climate change on agriculture pose new risks to global food systems.
Since 1990, it is estimated that some 420 million hectares of forest have been lost through conversion to other land uses, although the rate of deforestation has decreased over the past three decades. Between 2015 and 2020, the rate of deforestation was estimated at 10 million hectares per year, down from 16 million hectares per year in the 1990s. The area of primary forest worldwide has decreased by over 80 million hectares since 1990. More than 100 million hectares of forests are adversely affected by forest fires, pests, diseases, invasive species, drought and adverse weather events.

Title: Societal collapse
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Societal_collapse
Excerpt: Societal collapse (also known as civilizational collapse or systems collapse) is the fall of a complex human society characterized by the loss of cultural identity and of social complexity as an adaptive system, the downfall of government, and the rise of violence. Possible causes of a societal collapse include natural catastrophe, war, pestilence, famine,  economic collapse,  population decline or overshoot, mass migration, incompetent leaders, and sabotage by rival civilizations. A collapsed society may revert to a more primitive state, be absorbed into a stronger society, or completely disappear.
Virtually all civilizations have suffered such a fate, regardless of their size or complexity. Most never recovered, such as the Western and Eastern Roman Empires, the Maya civilization, and the Easter Island civilization. Some civilizations like ancient Greece have survived indirectly through other civilizations such as the West, while other ancient civilizations like Chinese civilization and Indian civilization have survived continuously to the present day.
Anthropologists, historians, and sociologists have proposed a variety of explanations for the collapse of civilizations involving causative factors such as environmental degradation, depletion of resources, costs of rising complexity, invasion, disease, decay of social cohesion, growing inequality, extractive institutions, long-term decline of cognitive abilities, loss of creativity, and misfortune. Complete extinction of a culture is not inevitable, and in some cases, the new societies that arise from the ashes of the old one are evidently its offspring, despite a dramatic reduction in sophistication. The influence of a collapsed society, such as the Western Roman Empire, may linger on long after its death.
The study of societal collapse, collapsology, is a topic for specialists of history, anthropology, sociology, and political science. More recently, they are joined by experts in cliodynamics and study of complex systems.

Title: Late Bronze Age collapse
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Late_Bronze_Age_collapse
Excerpt: The Late Bronze Age collapse was a period of societal collapse in the Mediterranean basin during the late 13th to early 12th century BC. It is thought to have affected much of the Eastern Mediterranean and Near East, in particular Egypt, Anatolia, the Aegean, eastern Libya, and the Balkans. The collapse was sudden, violent, and culturally disruptive for many Bronze Age civilizations, creating a sharp material decline for the region's previously existing powers.
The palace economy of Mycenaean Greece, the Aegean region, and Anatolia that characterized the Late Bronze Age disintegrated, transforming into the small isolated village cultures of the Greek Dark Ages, which lasted from c. 1200 BC to c. 800 BC, and were followed by the better-known Archaic Age. The Hittite Empire spanning Anatolia and the Levant collapsed, while states such as the Middle Assyrian Empire in Mesopotamia and the New Kingdom of Egypt survived in weakened forms. Other cultures, such as the Phoenicians, enjoyed increased autonomy and power with the waning military presence of Egypt and Assyria in West Asia.
Competing theories of the cause of the Late Bronze Age collapse have been proposed since the 19th century, with most involving the violent destruction of cities and towns. These include climate change, volcanic eruptions, droughts, disease, invasions by the Sea Peoples, economic disruptions due to increased ironworking, and changes in military technology and strategy that brought the decline of chariot warfare. Following the collapse, gradual changes in metallurgic technology led to the subsequent Iron Age across Europe, Asia, and Africa during the 1st millennium BC. Scholarship in the late 20th and early 21st century introduced views that the collapse was more limited in scale and scope than previously thought.

Title: Classic Maya collapse
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classic_Maya_collapse
Excerpt: In archaeology, the classic Maya collapse is a model to describe the destabilization of Classic Maya civilization and the violent collapse and abandonment of many southern lowlands city-states between the 7th and 9th centuries CE. Modern scholars increasingly describe this period as a "rupture" or transformation rather than a true collapse, because a number of Maya cities survived even if they faced a period of instability. 
The Classic Period of Mesoamerican chronology is generally defined as the period from 250 to 900 CE, the last century of which is referred to as the Terminal Classic. The Classic Maya collapse is one of the greatest unsolved mysteries in archaeology. Urban centers of the southern lowlands, among them Palenque, Copán, Tikal, and Calakmul, went into decline during the 8th and 9th centuries and were abandoned shortly thereafter. Archaeologically, this decline is indicated by the cessation of monumental inscriptions and the reduction of large-scale architectural construction at the primary urban centers of the Classic Period.
Although termed a collapse, it did not mark the end of the Maya civilization but rather a shift away from the Southern Lowlands as a power center; the Northern Yucatán in particular prospered afterwards, although with very different artistic and architectural styles, and with much less use of monumental hieroglyphic writing. In the Post-Classic Period following the collapse, the state of Chichén Itzá built an empire that briefly united much of the Maya region, and centers such as Mayapán and Uxmal flourished, as did the Highland states of the Kʼicheʼ and Kaqchikel Maya. Independent Maya civilization continued until 1697 when the Spanish conquered Nojpetén, the last independent city-state. Millions of Maya people still inhabit the Yucatán peninsula today.
Because parts of Maya civilization unambiguously continued, a number of scholars strongly dislike the term "collapse". In his recent book, The Four Heavens, David Stuart argues that historical ruptures were a regular if dramatic part of Maya culture, noting similar abandonment events at Aguada Fenix in 1000 BCE and El Mirador at the end of the Preclassic. He notes that one of the major changes was the government system--the abandonment of the Ajawlel. This may have been the result of the political rise of the merchant class. 
But an objection to the term "collapse" is nothing new. As early as the 1970s, E. Wyllys Andrews IV went as far as to say, "in my belief no such thing happened."

Title: Cultural loss
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultural_loss
Excerpt: Cultural loss refers to the erosion, disappearance, or transformation of the practices, languages, identities, knowledge systems, beliefs, arts, and social structures that define a community or society. Cultural loss happens in both human and non-human animal societies.  It may affect individual practices, entire communities, or broader cultural diversity within a population. Cultural loss thorough past and present periods is argued as highly detrimental when the loss of adaptive knowledge cascades into reduction of well-being. Research has also associated perceived cultural or identity loss with changes in social attitudes and economic prospects.
In human contexts, cultural loss is experienced at several levels. At the level of practices, cultural loss may involve the discontinuation of specific skills, technologies, or traditions. At the community level, cultural loss might involve a shift of the self-identification of the people in a group, the death or assimilation of the people, and the disappearance of many of the cultural practices associated with the identity, such as language, religion, rituals, symbols, oral traditions, foods, sustenance practices, sports and games. At the population level, cultural loss can be the loss of cultural diversity over an area, due to the disappearance of identity groups, languages or practices.
Cultural loss at each of these levels may occur gradually or abruptly through processes such as prohibition, globalisation, technological change, economic integration, war, forced displacement, environmental degradation, natural disasters, pandemics, migration, or colonial domination. In some cases, such processes have been described as Ethnocide.
Cultural loss is frequently discussed in relation to post-colonial reconciliation processes and the recognition of historical policies that suppressed indigenous cultures. These processes recognise and offer transparency to the actions and effects that such policies had on cultural loss, language loss, displacement, land eviction, boarding schools, reservations, natality control, socio-economical degradation, segregation and prohibition of cultural practices. Initiatives such as the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada have examined the impacts of residential schools, land dispossession, and the prohibition of cultural practices on indigenous communities. In 2023, to compensate for the loss of language and culture caused by its residential school system, the Canadian government agreed to a C$2.8 billion settlement in a class-action lawsuit to compensate Canadian First Nations.