Title: Pfizer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pfizer
Excerpt: Pfizer Inc. ( FY-zər) is an American multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology corporation headquartered at The Spiral in Manhattan, New York City. Founded in 1849 in New York by German entrepreneurs Charles Pfizer and Charles F. Erhart, Pfizer is one of the oldest pharmaceutical companies in North America.
Pfizer develops and produces medication and vaccines for immunology, oncology, cardiology, endocrinology, and neurology. The company's largest products by sales are Eliquis (apixaban) ($7.9 billion in 2025 revenues, 13% of total revenues), Prevnar (a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine) ($6.5 billion in 2025 revenues, 10% of total revenues), Paxlovid (Nirmatrelvir/ritonavir) ($2.4 billion in 2025 revenues, 4% of total revenues), Vyndaqel (tafamidis) ($6.4 billion in 2025 revenues, 10% of total revenues), Comirnaty (the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine) ($4.4 billion in 2025 revenues, 7% of total revenues), and Ibrance (palbociclib) ($4.1 billion in 2025 revenues, 7% of total revenues). In 2025, 59% of the company's revenues came from the United States, 5% came from China, and 36% came from other countries.
The company is ranked fifth on the list of largest biomedical companies by revenue. It is ranked the 69th on the Fortune 500 and 73rd on the Forbes Global 2000.

Title: COVID-19 vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_vaccine
Excerpt: A COVID‑19 vaccine is designed to induce immunity against SARS-CoV-2, the virus responsible for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). COVID-19 vaccines help reduce the risk of severe illness, hospitalization and death from the virus.
COVID‑19 vaccines were developed at an unprecedented pace to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, with the first clinical trials beginning in March 2020. Before approval, vaccines underwent the standard three phases of clinical trials, although phases were conducted in parallel to accelerate development. Vaccines have been developed based on both classical technologies (using inactivated virus or protein subunit) and novel platforms (mRNA or viral vector-based).
Prior research on coronaviruses causing severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) accelerated the development of various vaccine platforms in early 2020. The 2023 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded to Katalin Karikó and Drew Weissman for the development of effective mRNA vaccines against COVID‑19.
Major vaccines include the Pfizer–BioNTech mRNA vaccine, Moderna mRNA vaccine, and the Novavax protein subunit vaccine. With the emergence of new SARS-CoV-2 variants, the original vaccines—particularly Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna vaccines—have been updated. These "variant-adapted" vaccines are offered as booster doses. The immunity from the vaccines also wanes over time, requiring people to get boosters to maintain protection.
Common side effects of COVID‑19 vaccines include soreness, fatigue, headache, myalgia (muscle pain), and arthralgia (joint pain), which resolve without medical treatment within a few days. COVID‑19 vaccination is safe for people who are pregnant or are breastfeeding.
The COVID‑19 vaccines are widely credited for their role in reducing the spread of COVID‑19 and reducing the severity and death caused by COVID‑19. The Australian-based medical journal Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health estimated that between 14.4 and 19.8 million deaths were prevented by the vaccine. Many countries implemented phased distribution plans that prioritized those at highest risk of complications, such as the elderly, and those at high risk of exposure, such as healthcare workers. By December 2020, more than 10 billion vaccine doses had been preordered, with about half of the doses purchased by high-income countries comprising 14% of the world's population. As of August 2024, over 13 billion doses of COVID‑19 vaccines have been administered worldwide.

Title: Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pfizer%E2%80%93BioNTech_COVID-19_vaccine
Excerpt: The Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, sold under the brand name Comirnaty, is an mRNA-based COVID-19 vaccine developed by the German biotechnology company BioNTech. For its development, BioNTech collaborated with the American company Pfizer to carry out clinical trials, logistics, and manufacturing. It is authorized for use in humans to provide protection against COVID-19, caused by infection with the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The vaccine is given by intramuscular injection. It is composed of nucleoside-modified mRNA (modRNA) that encodes a mutated form of the full-length spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, which is encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles. Initial guidance recommended a two-dose regimen, given 21 days apart; this interval was subsequently extended to up to 42 days in the United States, and up to four months in Canada.
Clinical trials began in April 2020; by November 2020, the vaccine had met the primary efficacy goals of the phase III clinical trial, with over 40,000 people participating. Interim analysis of study data showed a potential efficacy of 91.3% in preventing symptomatic infection within seven days of a second dose and no serious safety concerns. Most side effects are mild to moderate in severity and resolve within a few days. Common side effects include mild to moderate pain at the injection site, fatigue, and headaches. Reports of serious side effects, such as allergic reactions, remain very rare with no long-term complications documented.
The vaccine is the first COVID‑19 vaccine to be authorized by a stringent regulatory authority for emergency use and the first to be approved for regular use. In December 2020, the United Kingdom was the first country to authorize its use on an emergency basis. It is authorized for use at some level in the majority of countries. On 23 August 2021, the Pfizer–BioNTech vaccine became the first COVID-19 vaccine to be approved in the US by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The logistics of distributing and storing the vaccine present significant challenges due to the requirement for its storage at extremely low temperatures.
In August 2022, a bivalent version of the vaccine (Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, Bivalent) was authorized for use as a booster dose in individuals aged twelve and older in the US. The following month, the BA.1 version of the bivalent vaccine (Comirnaty Original/Omicron BA.1 or tozinameran/riltozinameran) was authorized as a booster for use in the UK. The same month, the European Union authorized both the BA.1 and the BA.4/BA.5 (tozinameran/famtozinameran) booster versions of the bivalent vaccine. In August 2024, the FDA approved and granted emergency authorization for a monovalent Omicron KP.2 version of the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. The approval of Comirnaty (COVID-19 Vaccine, mRNA) (2024-2025 Formula) was granted to BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH. The EUA amendment for the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine (2024-2025 Formula) was issued to Pfizer Inc. The emergency use authorization was revoked in August 2025.

Title: Janssen COVID-19 vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Janssen_COVID-19_vaccine
Excerpt: The Janssen COVID‑19 vaccine, (Ad26.COV2.S) sold under the brand name Jcovden, is a COVID‑19 vaccine that was developed by Janssen Vaccines in Leiden, Netherlands, and its Belgian parent company Janssen Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of American company Johnson & Johnson.
It is a viral vector vaccine based on a human adenovirus that has been modified to contain the gene for making the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes COVID‑19. The body's immune system responds to this spike protein to produce antibodies. The vaccine requires only one dose and does not need to be stored frozen.
Clinical trials for the vaccine were started in June 2020, with phase III involving around 43,000 people. In January 2021, Janssen announced that 28 days after a completed vaccination, the vaccine was 66% effective in a one-dose regimen in preventing symptomatic COVID‑19, with an 85% efficacy in preventing severe COVID‑19 and 100% efficacy in preventing hospitalization or death caused by the disease.
The vaccine has been granted an emergency use authorization (EUA) by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and a conditional marketing authorization by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency. In June 2023, the FDA revoked the emergency use authorization for the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine at the request of its manufacturer.
Because cases of thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome and Guillain-Barré syndrome have been reported after receipt of the Janssen COVID‑19 vaccine, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends "preferential use of mRNA COVID‑19 vaccines over the Janssen COVID‑19 vaccine, including both primary and booster doses administered to prevent COVID‑19, for all persons aged 18 years of age and older. The Janssen COVID‑19 vaccine may be considered in some situations, including for persons with a contraindication to receipt of mRNA COVID‑19 vaccines." In February 2022, Johnson & Johnson announced it has temporarily suspended production of the vaccine though they also noted that it will likely resume at some point in the future and that it will honor all pre-existing contracts that oblige Janssen to supply its vaccine by using the millions of already existing vaccine doses in its inventory where requested.

Title: History of COVID-19 vaccine development
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_COVID-19_vaccine_development
Excerpt: SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, was isolated in late 2019.  Its genetic sequence was published on 11 January 2020, setting off an intense research effort to develop a COVID-19 vaccine. Vaccine development was expedited via unprecedented collaboration between academia, the pharmaceutical industry and governments. By June 2020, tens of billions of dollars were being invested to develop dozens of vaccine candidates and prepare for global vaccination programs. According to the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), the geographic distribution of COVID‑19 vaccine development shows North American entities to have about 40% of the activity, compared to 30% in Asia and Australia, 26% in Europe, and a few projects in South America and Africa.
In February 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) said it did not expect a vaccine against SARS‑CoV‑2 to become available in less than 18 months. Virologist Paul Offit commented that, in hindsight, the development of a safe and effective vaccine within 11 months was a remarkable feat. The rapidly growing infection rate of COVID‑19 worldwide during 2020 stimulated international alliances and government efforts to urgently organize resources to make multiple vaccines on shortened timelines; Four vaccine candidates entered human evaluation in March.
On 24 June 2020, China approved the CanSino vaccine for limited use in the military and two inactivated virus vaccines for emergency use in high-risk occupations. On 11 August 2020, Russia announced the approval of its Sputnik V vaccine for emergency use, though one month later only small amounts of the vaccine had been distributed for use outside of the phase 3 trial.
The Pfizer–BioNTech partnership submitted an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) request to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for their mRNA vaccine on 20 November 2020. On 2 December 2020, the United Kingdom's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) gave temporary regulatory approval for the Pfizer–BioNTech vaccine, becoming the first country to approve the vaccine and the first country in the Western world to approve the use of any COVID‑19 vaccine. The US and the EU followed later that month. The US also granted an EUA for the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine in December. Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates granted emergency marketing authorization for the Sinopharm BIBP vaccine. 
On 31 March 2021, the Russian government announced that they had registered the first COVID‑19 vaccine for animals. Named Carnivac-Cov, it is an inactivated vaccine for carnivorous  animals, including pets, aimed at preventing mutations that occur during the interspecies transmission of SARS-CoV-2.
In October 2022, China began administering an oral vaccine developed by CanSino Biologics using its adenovirus model.
Despite the availability of mRNA and viral vector vaccines, worldwide vaccine equity has not been achieved. The ongoing development and use of whole inactivated virus (WIV)  and protein-based vaccines has been recommended, especially for use in developing countries, to dampen further waves of the pandemic.