Title: Lithium
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithium
Excerpt: Lithium (from Ancient Greek: λίθος, líthos, 'stone') is a chemical element; it has symbol Li and atomic number 3. It is a soft, silvery-white alkali metal. Under standard conditions, it is the least dense metal and the least dense solid element. Like all alkali metals, lithium is highly reactive and flammable, and must be stored in vacuum, inert atmosphere, or inert liquid such as purified kerosene or mineral oil. It exhibits a metallic luster when pure, but quickly corrodes in air to a dull silvery gray, then black tarnish. It does not occur freely in nature, but occurs mainly as pegmatitic minerals, which were once the main source of lithium. Due to its solubility as an ion, it is present in ocean water and is commonly obtained from brines. Lithium metal is isolated electrolytically from a mixture of lithium chloride and potassium chloride.
The nucleus of the lithium atom verges on instability, since the two stable lithium isotopes found in nature have among the lowest binding energies per nucleon of all stable nuclides. Because of its relative nuclear instability, lithium is less common in the Solar System than 28 of the first 34 chemical elements even though its nuclei are very light: it is an exception to the trend that heavier nuclei are less common. For related reasons, lithium has important uses in nuclear physics. The transmutation of lithium atoms to helium in 1932 was the first fully human-made nuclear reaction, and lithium deuteride serves as a fusion fuel in staged thermonuclear weapons.
Lithium and its compounds have several industrial applications, including heat-resistant glass and ceramics, lithium grease lubricants, flux additives for iron, steel and aluminium production, lithium metal batteries, and lithium-ion batteries. Batteries alone consume more than three-quarters of lithium production.
Lithium is present in biological systems in trace amounts. Lithium-based drugs are useful as a mood stabilizer and antidepressant in the treatment of mental illness such as bipolar disorder.

Title: Lithium-ion battery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithium-ion_battery
Excerpt: A lithium-ion battery or Li-ion battery is a type of rechargeable battery that uses the reversible intercalation of lithium ions (Li+) into electronically conducting solids to store energy. There are many different varieties, which are usually categorized by the materials used in the cathode. Compared to other rechargeable battery types, they generally have higher specific energy, energy density, and energy efficiency and a longer cycle life and calendar life. In the three decades since Li-ion batteries were first sold in 1991, their volumetric energy density increased threefold while their cost dropped tenfold. In late 2024, global demand passed 1 terawatt-hour per year, while production capacity was more than twice that.
The invention and commercialization of Li-ion batteries has had a large impact on technology, as recognized by the 2019 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, which was awarded to contributors to the development of Li-ion batteries. Li-ion batteries have enabled portable consumer electronics, laptop computers, cellular phones, and electric cars. They are used for grid-scale energy storage and in military and aerospace applications. Li-ion battery sizes are generally not standardised (e.g. in the spirit of the AA battery) and they come in various and unique form factors depending on device and vendor. They typically have a nominal voltage of 3.6 or 3.7 V.
M. Stanley Whittingham conceived intercalation electrodes in the 1970s and created the first rechargeable lithium-ion battery, based on a titanium disulfide cathode and a lithium-aluminium anode, although it suffered from safety problems and was never commercialized. John Goodenough expanded on this work in 1980 by using lithium cobalt oxide as a cathode. The first prototype of the modern Li-ion battery, which uses a carbonaceous anode rather than lithium metal, was developed by Akira Yoshino in 1985 and commercialized by a Sony and Asahi Kasei team led by Yoshio Nishi in 1991. Whittingham, Goodenough, and Yoshino were awarded the 2019 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their contributions to the development of lithium-ion batteries.
Lithium-ion batteries can be a fire or explosion hazard as they contain flammable electrolytes. Progress has been made in the development and manufacturing of safer lithium-ion batteries. Lithium-ion solid-state batteries are being developed to eliminate the flammable electrolyte. Lithium and other minerals can have significant issues in mining, with lithium being water intensive in often arid regions and other minerals used in some Li-ion chemistries potentially being conflict minerals such as cobalt. Environmental issues have encouraged some researchers to improve mineral efficiency and find alternatives such as lithium iron phosphate lithium-ion chemistries or non-lithium-based battery chemistries such as sodium-ion and iron-air batteries.
Lithium-ion cells can be manufactured to optimize energy density or power density. Handheld electronics mostly use lithium polymer batteries (with a polymer gel as an electrolyte), a lithium cobalt oxide (LiCoO2) cathode material, and a graphite anode, which together offer high energy density. Lithium iron phosphate (LiFePO4), lithium manganese oxide (LiMn2O4 spinel, or Li2MnO3-based lithium-rich layered materials, LMR-NMC), and lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide (LiNiMnCoO2 or NMC) may offer longer life and a higher discharge rate. NMC and its derivatives are widely used in the electrification of transport, one of the main technologies (combined with renewable energy) for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles. Lithium nickel cobalt aluminum oxide (NCA) is another high-energy lithium-ion chemistry commonly used in electric vehicle batteries.

Title: Electric vehicle
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_vehicle
Excerpt: An electric vehicle (EV) is a vehicle propelled mostly by electric power. EVs encompass electric cars and other electric road vehicles (buses, trucks and personal transporters) as well as other types of land vehicles, such as electric rail vehicles (trains, trams and monorails). It also includes electric watercraft (boats and submersibles), aircraft (fixed-wing and multirotors), and spacecraft.
EVs originated in the late 19th century. Electricity was among the preferred methods for powering early motor vehicles because it was quieter, provided comfort, and ease of operation. However, its limited range hindered mass adoption throughout the 20th century. Internal combustion engines were the dominant propulsion mechanisms for cars and trucks for about 100 years, although electricity-powered locomotion became commonplace in other vehicle types, such as overhead line-powered mass transit vehicles, as well as special purpose vehicles such as mobility scooters.
Since the late 20th century, technological advances in lithium batteries—which offer superior energy density and current output versus lead-acid batteries—has revived public interest as zero-emission vehicle options. Manufacturers mostly switched to hybrids that use internal combustion engines like conventional vehicles, but add electric motors as a supplement, powered by electricity produced internally by motor-generators and recovered from regenerative braking. Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, which can be recharged from an electric grid and use electric motors as the primary propulsion rather than as a supplement to combustion engines, did not see any mass production until the late 2000s, and battery electric cars did not become practical options for the consumer market until the 2010s. Although spacecraft have been propelled by electricity since the 1960s, non-rocket spacelaunch from Earth remains science fiction.

Technological progress in electric vehicle batteries, electric traction motors and automotive electronics (particularly electronic control units) has made electric cars more feasible and, in some cases, more cost-efficient than conventional ICE vehicles during the 21st century, with market penetration in some countries like China reaching nearly half of all new vehicles sold. As a means of reducing tailpipe emissions of greenhouse gases and other air pollutants, and to reduce the dependency on fossil fuels, government incentives are also available in many areas to promote the adoption of electric vehicles. As of 2026, the electric vehicle industry in China produces more than the rest of the world combined.

Title: Electronic waste
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_waste
Excerpt: Electronic waste (e-waste) describes discarded electrical or electronic devices. It is also commonly known as waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) or end-of-life (EOL) electronics. Electronic waste is one of the fastest-growing waste streams globally, driven by rapid technological advancement and increasing consumption of electronic devices. In 2022, approximately 62 million tonnes of electronic waste were generated globally, making it one of the fastest growing waste streams; only 22.3% were formally collected and recycled. Global e-waste generation is projected to reach 82 million tonnes by 2030. Used electronics which are destined for refurbishment, reuse, resale, salvage recycling through material recovery, or disposal are also considered e-waste. Informal processing of e-waste in developing countries can lead to adverse human health effects and environmental pollution. The growing consumption of electronic goods due to the Digital Revolution and innovations in science and technology, such as bitcoin, has led to a global e-waste problem and hazard. The rapid exponential increase in e-waste is due to frequent new-model releases, unnecessary purchases of electrical and electronic equipment (EEE), short innovation cycles, low recycling rates, and a drop in the average lifespan of computers.
Electronic scrap components, such as CPUs, contain potentially harmful materials such as lead, cadmium, beryllium, or brominated flame retardants. Recycling and disposal of e-waste may involve significant risk to the health of workers and their communities.

Title: Electric vehicle battery
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_vehicle_battery
Excerpt: An electric vehicle battery is a rechargeable battery used to power the electric motors of a battery electric vehicle (BEV) or hybrid electric vehicle (HEV).
They are typically lithium-ion batteries that are designed for high power-to-weight ratio and energy density. Compared to liquid fuels, most current battery technologies have much lower specific energy. This increases the weight of vehicles or reduces their range.
Li-NMC batteries using lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxides are the most common in EV. The lithium iron phosphate battery (LFP) is on the rise, reaching 41% global market share by capacity for BEVs in 2023. LFP batteries are heavier but cheaper and more sustainable. However, some commercial passenger car manufacturers are now beginning to use a sodium-ion battery completely avoiding the need for critical minerals.
The battery makes up a significant portion of the cost and environmental impact of an electric vehicle. Growth in the industry has generated interest in securing ethical battery supply chains, which has become an important geopolitical issue. Reduction of use of mined cobalt, which is also required in fossil fuel refining, has been a major goal of research. A number of new chemistries compete to displace Li-NMC with (see solid-state battery) performance above 800Wh/kg in laboratory testing.
In 2019, the cost of electric vehicle batteries was said to have fallen 87% on a per kilowatt-hour basis.
Demand for EVBs exceeded 750 GWh in 2023. EVBs have much higher capacities than automotive batteries used for starting, lighting, and ignition (SLI) in combustion cars. The battery capacity of available EV models reached from 21 to 123 kWh in 2023 with an average of 80 kWh.