Title: COVID-19 pandemic
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_pandemic
Excerpt: The global COVID-19 pandemic (also known as the coronavirus pandemic), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), began with an outbreak in Wuhan, China, in December 2019. It spread to other parts of Asia and then worldwide in early 2020. The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the outbreak a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) on 30 January 2020 and assessed it as having become a pandemic on 11 March. The WHO declared that the public health emergency caused by COVID-19 had ended in May 2023, while noting that COVID-19 continued to be a global health threat.
COVID-19 symptoms range from asymptomatic to deadly, but most commonly include fever, sore throat, nocturnal cough, and fatigue. Transmission of the virus is often through airborne particles. Mutations have produced many strains (variants) with varying degrees of infectivity and virulence. COVID-19 vaccines were developed rapidly and deployed to the general public beginning in December 2020, made available through government and international programmes such as COVAX, aiming to provide vaccine equity. Treatments include novel antiviral drugs and symptom control. Common mitigation measures during the public health emergency included travel restrictions, lockdowns, business restrictions and closures, workplace hazard controls, mask mandates, quarantines, testing systems, and contact tracing of the infected.
The pandemic caused severe social and economic disruption around the world, including the largest global recession since the Great Depression. Widespread supply shortages, including food shortages, were caused by supply chain disruptions and panic buying. Reduced human activity led to an unprecedented temporary decrease in pollution. Educational institutions and public areas were partially or fully closed in many jurisdictions, and many events were cancelled or postponed during 2020 and 2021. Telework became much more common for white-collar workers as the pandemic evolved. Misinformation circulated through social media and occasionally through mass media, and political tensions intensified. The pandemic raised issues of racial and geographic discrimination, health equity, and the balance between public health imperatives and individual rights.
The disease has continued to circulate since 2023. By 2025, experts generally believed the pandemic to be over, having transitioned into the endemic phase. Different definitions of pandemics lead to different determinations of when they end. As of 5 August 2026, COVID-19 has caused 7,115,203 confirmed deaths and 18.5 to 35.2 million estimated deaths.

Title: COVID-19
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19
Excerpt: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a contagious disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. Starting in January 2020, the disease spread worldwide, resulting in the COVID-19 pandemic. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global health emergency; they declared the end of the emergency in May 2023.
The symptoms of COVID‑19 can vary but often include fever, fatigue, cough, shortness of breath, loss of smell, and loss of taste. Symptoms may begin one to fourteen days after exposure to the virus. At least a third of people who are infected do not develop noticeable symptoms. Of those who develop symptoms noticeable enough to be classified as patients, most (81%) develop mild to moderate symptoms (up to mild pneumonia), while 14% develop severe symptoms (dyspnea, hypoxia, or more than 50% lung involvement on imaging), and 5% develop critical symptoms (respiratory failure, shock, or multiorgan dysfunction). Older people have a higher risk of developing severe symptoms and dying. Some people experience persistent symptoms (long COVID), for months or years after infection, including fatigue, cognitive issues and shortness of breath. Damage to organs has been observed in a subset.
COVID‑19 transmission occurs when infectious particles are breathed in or come into contact with the eyes, nose, or mouth. The risk is highest when people are close together, but small airborne particles containing the virus can remain suspended in the air and travel over longer distances, particularly indoors. Transmission can also occur when people touch their eyes, nose, or mouth after touching surfaces or objects that have been contaminated by the virus. People remain contagious for up to 20 days and can spread the virus even if they do not develop symptoms.
There are two common tests to detect a COVID infection. Antigen tests (also called rapid lateral flow tests) can be used at home. A positive test indicates an active infection. However, negative test results are not always accurate, especially when there are no symptoms. Health care providers can perform a more accurate PCR test, which is typically analysed in a laboratory.
Several COVID-19 vaccines have been approved and distributed in various countries, many of which have initiated mass vaccination campaigns. Other preventive measures include physical or social distancing, quarantining, ventilation of indoor spaces, use of face masks or coverings in public, covering coughs and sneezes, hand washing, and keeping unwashed hands away from the face. Initial treatment consists of drugs that have been developed to inhibit the virus for those at high risk and symptomatic treatment, managing the disease through supportive care.
The first known case was identified in Wuhan, China, in December 2019. Most scientists believe that the SARS-CoV-2 virus entered into human populations through natural zoonosis, similar to the SARS-CoV-1 and MERS-CoV outbreaks, and consistent with other pandemics in human history. Social and environmental factors including climate change, natural ecosystem destruction and wildlife trade increased the likelihood of such zoonotic spillover.

Title: COVID-19 vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_vaccine
Excerpt: A COVID‑19 vaccine is designed to induce immunity against SARS-CoV-2, the virus responsible for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). COVID-19 vaccines help reduce the risk of severe illness, hospitalization and death from the virus.
COVID‑19 vaccines were developed at an unprecedented pace to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, with the first clinical trials beginning in March 2020. Before approval, vaccines underwent the standard three phases of clinical trials, although phases were conducted in parallel to accelerate development. Vaccines have been developed based on both classical technologies (using inactivated virus or protein subunit) and novel platforms (mRNA or viral vector-based).
Prior research on coronaviruses causing severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) accelerated the development of various vaccine platforms in early 2020. The 2023 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded to Katalin Karikó and Drew Weissman for the development of effective mRNA vaccines against COVID‑19.
Major vaccines include the Pfizer–BioNTech mRNA vaccine, Moderna mRNA vaccine, and the Novavax protein subunit vaccine. With the emergence of new SARS-CoV-2 variants, the original vaccines—particularly Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna vaccines—have been updated. These "variant-adapted" vaccines are offered as booster doses. The immunity from the vaccines also wanes over time, requiring people to get boosters to maintain protection.
Common side effects of COVID‑19 vaccines include soreness, fatigue, headache, myalgia (muscle pain), and arthralgia (joint pain), which resolve without medical treatment within a few days. COVID‑19 vaccination is safe for people who are pregnant or are breastfeeding.
The COVID‑19 vaccines are widely credited for their role in reducing the spread of COVID‑19 and reducing the severity and death caused by COVID‑19. The Australian-based medical journal Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health estimated that between 14.4 and 19.8 million deaths were prevented by the vaccine. Many countries implemented phased distribution plans that prioritized those at highest risk of complications, such as the elderly, and those at high risk of exposure, such as healthcare workers. By December 2020, more than 10 billion vaccine doses had been preordered, with about half of the doses purchased by high-income countries comprising 14% of the world's population. As of August 2024, over 13 billion doses of COVID‑19 vaccines have been administered worldwide.

Title: Moderna COVID-19 vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moderna_COVID-19_vaccine
Excerpt: The Moderna COVID‑19 vaccine, sold under the brand name Spikevax among others, is a COVID-19 vaccine developed by the American company Moderna, the United States National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA). Depending on the jurisdiction, it is authorized for use in humans aged six months, twelve years, or eighteen years and older. The Moderna COVID‑19 vaccine provides protection against COVID-19, which is caused by infection by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. A different version of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine, sold under the brand name Mnexspike (mRNA-1283), was approved for medical use in the United States in May 2025, and in the European Union in February 2026.
Spikevax is designed to be administered in two or three 0.5-mL doses given by intramuscular injection, primarily into the deltoid muscle, at an interval of at least 28 days apart. The World Health Organization advises an eight-week interval between doses to optimize efficacy. Additional booster doses are approved in some regions to maintain immunity. Clinical trials and real-world data have demonstrated the vaccine's high efficacy, with significant effectiveness observed two weeks post-administration of the second dose, offering 94% protection against Covid and robust defense against severe cases. The vaccine's efficacy spans various demographics, including age, sex, and those with high-risk medical conditions.
Spikevax is an mRNA vaccine composed of nucleoside-modified mRNA (modRNA) encoding a spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, which is encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles. In August and September 2022, bivalent versions of the vaccine (Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine, Bivalent) containing elasomeran/elasomeran 0-omicron (Spikevax Bivalent Zero/Omicron) were authorized for use as booster doses in individuals aged 18 or older in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Australia, Canada, the European Union, and the United States. The second component of the version of the bivalent vaccine used in the United States is based on the Omicron BA.4/BA.5 variant, while the second component of the bivalent vaccine version used in other countries is based on the Omicron BA.1 variant. The vaccine's effectiveness against variants has been extensively studied, indicating varying degrees of protection. For instance, during the prevalence of the Delta variant, effectiveness against infection slightly decreased over time. The vaccine's longevity and continuous protection are under study, with ongoing research focusing on its duration of effectiveness, which remains partially undetermined as of the latest updates.
The safety profile of the vaccine is favorable, with common side effects including injection site pain, fatigue, and headaches. Severe reactions like anaphylaxis are exceedingly rare. Concerns regarding myocarditis, have been identified but are typically mild and manageable. The vaccine's formulation utilizes mRNA technology, encapsulated within lipid nanoparticles to ensure cellular uptake and immune system response.

Title: Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pfizer%E2%80%93BioNTech_COVID-19_vaccine
Excerpt: The Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, sold under the brand name Comirnaty, is an mRNA-based COVID-19 vaccine developed by the German biotechnology company BioNTech. For its development, BioNTech collaborated with the American company Pfizer to carry out clinical trials, logistics, and manufacturing. It is authorized for use in humans to provide protection against COVID-19, caused by infection with the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The vaccine is given by intramuscular injection. It is composed of nucleoside-modified mRNA (modRNA) that encodes a mutated form of the full-length spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, which is encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles. Initial guidance recommended a two-dose regimen, given 21 days apart; this interval was subsequently extended to up to 42 days in the United States, and up to four months in Canada.
Clinical trials began in April 2020; by November 2020, the vaccine had met the primary efficacy goals of the phase III clinical trial, with over 40,000 people participating. Interim analysis of study data showed a potential efficacy of 91.3% in preventing symptomatic infection within seven days of a second dose and no serious safety concerns. Most side effects are mild to moderate in severity and resolve within a few days. Common side effects include mild to moderate pain at the injection site, fatigue, and headaches. Reports of serious side effects, such as allergic reactions, remain very rare with no long-term complications documented.
The vaccine is the first COVID‑19 vaccine to be authorized by a stringent regulatory authority for emergency use and the first to be approved for regular use. In December 2020, the United Kingdom was the first country to authorize its use on an emergency basis. It is authorized for use at some level in the majority of countries. On 23 August 2021, the Pfizer–BioNTech vaccine became the first COVID-19 vaccine to be approved in the US by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The logistics of distributing and storing the vaccine present significant challenges due to the requirement for its storage at extremely low temperatures.
In August 2022, a bivalent version of the vaccine (Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, Bivalent) was authorized for use as a booster dose in individuals aged twelve and older in the US. The following month, the BA.1 version of the bivalent vaccine (Comirnaty Original/Omicron BA.1 or tozinameran/riltozinameran) was authorized as a booster for use in the UK. The same month, the European Union authorized both the BA.1 and the BA.4/BA.5 (tozinameran/famtozinameran) booster versions of the bivalent vaccine. In August 2024, the FDA approved and granted emergency authorization for a monovalent Omicron KP.2 version of the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. The approval of Comirnaty (COVID-19 Vaccine, mRNA) (2024-2025 Formula) was granted to BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH. The EUA amendment for the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine (2024-2025 Formula) was issued to Pfizer Inc. The emergency use authorization was revoked in August 2025.