Title: Repatriation (cultural property)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Repatriation_(cultural_property)
Excerpt: Repatriation is the return of the cultural property, often referring to ancient or looted art, to their country of origin or former owners (or their heirs).
The disputed cultural property items are physical artifacts of a group or society taken by another group, usually in the act of looting, whether in the context of imperialism, colonialism, or war. The contested objects vary widely and include sculptures, paintings, monuments, objects such as tools or weapons for purposes of anthropological study, and human remains.
The looting of defeated peoples' cultural heritage by war has been common practice since ancient times. In the modern era, the Napoleonic looting of art was confiscations of artworks and precious objects by the French army or officials. After Napoleon's defeat, some looted artworks were returned to their country of origin, according the Treaty of Paris, among them the Horses of Saint Mark, repatriated to Venice. The earliest known case of formerly-colonized peoples securing the repatriation of cultural property purloined during imperial conquest from a European museum explicitly citing the principle of decolonization is the return of the Samarkand Codex of the Quran of Uthman under the Bolsheviks. 
In the early 21st century, debates about the colonial context of acquisitions by Western collections have centered both around arguments against and in favor of repatriations. Since the publication of the French report on the restitution of African cultural heritage in 2018, these debates have gained new international attention and have led to changes regarding the public role of museums and to restitutions on moral rather than merely legal grounds.

Title: Foreign and Commonwealth Office Migrated Archives
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_and_Commonwealth_Office_Migrated_Archives
Excerpt: The Foreign and Commonwealth Office Migrated Archives are a collection of about 20,000 files and other records created by the governments of 41 British colonial dependencies, removed to the UK at independence, and held clandestinely for decades in various repositories in and around London. They came only from territories administered by the Colonial Office, so not from India and other dependencies administered by the India Office and its predecessors, whose records are in the India Office Records at the British Library.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) was finally forced to admit the existence of the 'migrated archives' in 2011 during the course of the 'Mau Mau litigation', a case brought against the British government by veterans of the 1952–1960 struggle for independence in Kenya who claimed compensation for ill-treatment and torture. Foreign Secretary William Hague announced in the House of Commons on 5 May 2011 that he intended "to release every part of every paper of interest subject only to legal exemptions". The collection was transferred to the UK National Archives (TNA), and opened to the public, during 2012 and 2013.  It is held at TNA under the reference FCO 141.  There are redactions and closed and retained items, but it appears that nothing was destroyed during the process of transfer.  Unknown quantities of related material were destroyed by the British authorities in the former dependencies during the decolonisation period.  It is not known if anything was destroyed after the removal to the UK.  Certainly some was lost during the many moves from one building to another.
Because of the circumstances of the release of these records it was initially believed that the entire content was sensitive and potentially incriminating. In fact, content is highly miscellaneous and sometimes mundane. FCO 141 also includes files created by the FCO, TNA, and their predecessors which are about the 'migrated archives' rather than part of them. Material in FCO 141 covers dates between 1835 and 2012.