Title: Quantum computing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_computing
Excerpt: A quantum computer is a computer that represents and processes information using quantum states. Quantum computations exploit phenomena such as superposition, interference, and entanglement. Quantum computers have the potential to complete some calculations exponentially faster than classical computers. For example, a large-scale quantum computer could break widely used encryption schemes and aid physicists in performing physical simulations. However, current hardware implementations of quantum computation are largely experimental and suitable for only certain specialized tasks.
The basic unit of information in quantum computing, the qubit (quantum bit), serves a similar function as the bit in ordinary or "classical" computing. Unlike a classical bit, which can be in one of two states (a binary), a qubit can exist in a linear combination of states known as a quantum superposition. The result of measuring a qubit is one of the two states, given by a probabilistic rule. If a quantum computer manipulates the qubit in a particular way, wave interference effects amplify the probability of the desired measurement result. Quantum algorithm design involves creating procedures that allow a quantum computer to perform this amplification.
Quantum computers are not yet practical for real-world applications. If a physical qubit is not sufficiently isolated from its environment, it suffers from quantum decoherence, introducing noise (error) into calculations. Governments have invested in research aimed at developing qubits with longer coherence times and lower error rates. Example implementations include superconductors (which isolate an electrical current by eliminating electrical resistance) and ion traps (which confine a single atomic particle using electromagnetic fields). Researchers have claimed that quantum devices can outperform classical computers on specific tasks, a metric referred to as quantum advantage or quantum supremacy. Such tasks are not necessarily useful for real-world applications. As a result, as of 2026 demonstrations are best understood as scientific milestones rather than evidence for near-term deployment. Global government investment in quantum computing reached $10 billion by April 2025.

Title: Quantum information
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_information
Excerpt: Quantum information is the information of the state of a quantum system. It is the basic entity of study in quantum information science, and can be manipulated using quantum information processing techniques. Quantum information refers to both the technical definition in terms of von Neumann entropy and the general computational term.
It is an interdisciplinary field that involves quantum mechanics, computer science, information theory, philosophy and cryptography among other fields. Its study is also relevant to disciplines such as cognitive science and neuroscience. Its main focus is in extracting information from matter at the microscopic scale. Observation in science is one of the most important ways of acquiring information and measurement is required in order to quantify the observation, making this crucial to the scientific method. In quantum mechanics, due to the uncertainty principle, non-commuting observables cannot be precisely measured simultaneously, as an eigenstate in one basis is not an eigenstate in the other basis. According to the eigenstate–eigenvalue link, an observable is well-defined (definite) when the state of the system is an eigenstate of the observable. Since any two non-commuting observables are not simultaneously well-defined, a quantum state can never contain definitive information about both non-commuting observables.
Data can be encoded into the quantum state of a quantum system as quantum information. While quantum mechanics deals with examining properties of matter at the microscopic level, quantum information science focuses on extracting information from those properties, and quantum computation manipulates and processes information – performs logical operations – using quantum information processing techniques.
Quantum information, like classical information, can be processed using digital computers, transmitted from one location to another, manipulated with algorithms, and analyzed with computer science and mathematics. Just like the basic unit of classical information is the bit, quantum information deals with qubits. Quantum information can be measured using von Neumann entropy.
Recently, the field of quantum computing has become an active research area because of the possibility to disrupt modern computation, communication, and cryptography.

Title: Quantum key distribution
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_key_distribution
Excerpt: Quantum key distribution (QKD) is a secure communication method that implements a cryptographic protocol based on the laws of quantum mechanics, specifically quantum entanglement, the measurement-disturbance principle, and the no-cloning theorem. The goal of QKD is to enable two parties to produce a shared random secret key known only to them, which then can be used to encrypt and decrypt messages. This means, when QKD is correctly implemented, one would need to violate fundamental physical principles to break a quantum protocol. The QKD process should not be confused with quantum cryptography in general.
An important and unique property of QKD is the ability of the two communicating users to detect the presence of any third party trying to gain knowledge of the key. This results from a fundamental aspect of quantum mechanics: the process of measuring a quantum system in general disturbs the system. This means, a third party attempting to eavesdrop on the key must in some way measure it, thus introducing detectable anomalies, thereby revealing the presence of the eavesdropper. This unique property ensures that the distributed keys remain secure, as any attempt at interception will be immediately apparent and will invalidate the exchanged key. By using quantum superpositions or quantum entanglement and transmitting information in quantum states, a communication system can be implemented that detects eavesdropping. If the level of eavesdropping is below a certain threshold, a key can be produced that is guaranteed to be secure (i.e., the eavesdropper has no information about it). Otherwise no secure key is possible, and communication is aborted.
The security of encryption that uses quantum key distribution relies on the foundations of quantum mechanics, in contrast to traditional public key cryptography, which relies on the computational difficulty of certain mathematical functions, which although conjectured to be strong has not to date been formally proved. In contrast, QKD has provable security based on information theory, and forward secrecy.
The main drawback of quantum-key distribution is that it usually relies on having an authenticated classical channel of communication. In modern cryptography, having an authenticated classical channel means that one already has exchanged either a symmetric key of sufficient length or public keys of sufficient security level. With such information already available, in practice one can achieve authenticated and sufficiently secure communication without using QKD, such as by using the Galois/Counter Mode of the Advanced Encryption Standard. Thus QKD does the work of a stream cipher at many times the cost.
Quantum key distribution is used to produce and distribute only a key, not to transmit any message data. This key can then be used with any chosen encryption algorithm to encrypt (and decrypt) a message, which can then be transmitted over a standard communication channel. The algorithm most commonly associated with QKD is the one-time pad, as it is provably secure when used with a secret, random key. In real-world situations, it is often also used with encryption using symmetric key algorithms like the Advanced Encryption Standard algorithm.

Title: Quantum decoherence
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_decoherence
Excerpt: Quantum decoherence is the loss of quantum coherence.  It involves generally a loss of information of a system to its environment. Quantum decoherence has been studied to understand how quantum systems convert to systems that can be explained by classical mechanics.  Beginning out of attempts to extend the understanding of quantum mechanics, the theory has developed in several  directions and experimental studies have confirmed some of the key issues. Quantum computing relies on quantum coherence and is one of the primary practical applications of the concept.

Title: Glossary of computer science
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glossary_of_computer_science
Excerpt: This glossary of computer science is a list of definitions of terms and concepts used in computer science, its sub-disciplines, and related fields, including terms relevant to software, data science, and computer programming.