Title: Channel Tunnel
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Channel_Tunnel
Excerpt: The Channel Tunnel (French: Tunnel sous la Manche), sometimes referred to as the Chunnel,  is a 50.46-kilometre (31.35-mile) railway tunnel beneath the English Channel which connects Folkestone in the United Kingdom with Coquelles in northern France. Opened in 1994, it remains the only fixed link between Great Britain and the European mainland.
The tunnel has the longest underwater section of any tunnel in the world, at 37.9 km (23.5 miles), reaching a depth of 75 m (246 ft) below sea level and runs, on average, 45 m (148 ft) below the seabed. It is the third-longest railway tunnel in the world. Although the tunnel was designed for speeds up to 200 km/h (120 mph), trains are limited to a maximum speed of 160 km/h (99 mph) for safety reasons. It connects to high-speed railway lines on either end: the LGV Nord in France and High Speed 1 in the United Kingdom.
The tunnel is operated by Getlink (formerly Eurotunnel) and is used by Eurostar high-speed passenger trains, LeShuttle services for road vehicles, and freight trains. In 2017, Eurostar trains carried 10.3 million passengers, freight trains transported 1.2 million tonnes (2.6 billion pounds) of freight, and LeShuttle trains moved 10.4 million passengers in 2.6 million cars and 51,000 coaches, and 1.6 million heavy goods vehicles carrying 21.3 million tonnes (47 billion pounds) of freight. That compares with 11.7 million passengers, 2.2 million cars, and 2.6 million heavy goods vehicles transported by sea through the Port of Dover.
Proposals for a cross-Channel tunnel date back as early as 1802, but concerns over national security delayed development. The modern project was initiated by Eurotunnel in 1988 and completed in 1994, at a final cost of £4.65 billion (equivalent to £9.8 billion in 2025). An engineering marvel, the Channel Tunnel was, at the time of its opening, by far the longest tunnel in Europe, and has only been surpassed by the Gotthard Base Tunnel in Switzerland. However, despite its engineering significance, several economic assessments have found that it has had only a limited positive economic impact on the British economy. Additionally, the tunnel has also experienced occasional service disruptions due to technical faults, fires, severe weather, and unauthorised access by migrants around Calais seeking entry to the United Kingdom.

Title: United Kingdom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom
Excerpt: The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, commonly known as the United Kingdom (UK) or Britain, is a country in northwestern Europe, off the coast of the continental mainland. It comprises England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, with a population of over 69 million in 2024. The UK includes the island of Great Britain, the north-eastern part of the island of Ireland, and most of the smaller islands within the British Isles, covering 94,354 square miles (244,376 km2). It shares a land border with the Republic of Ireland and is surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean, the North Sea, the English Channel, the Celtic Sea and the Irish Sea, while maintaining sovereignty over the Crown Dependencies and the British Overseas Territories. The capital and largest city of England and the UK is London; Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast are the national capitals of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, respectively.
The British Isles have been continuously inhabited since the Neolithic. In AD 43 the Roman conquest of Britain began. The Roman departure between 383 and 410 was followed by Anglo-Saxon settlement beginning around 450. In 1066 the Normans conquered England. Over the 17th century the role of the British monarchy was reduced, particularly as a result of the English Civil War. In 1707 the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland united under the Treaty of Union to create the Kingdom of Great Britain. The Acts of Union 1800 incorporated the Kingdom of Ireland to create the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1801. Most of Ireland seceded from the UK in 1922 as the Irish Free State, and the Royal and Parliamentary Titles Act 1927 created the present United Kingdom.
The UK became the first industrialised country and was the world's foremost power for the majority of the 19th and early 20th centuries, particularly during the Pax Britannica between 1815 and 1914. The British Empire was the leading economic power for most of the 19th century, a position supported by its agricultural prosperity, its role as a dominant trading nation, a massive industrial capacity, significant technological achievements, and the rise of 19th-century London as the world's principal financial centre. At its height in the 1920s, the empire encompassed around a quarter of the world's landmass and population, and was the largest in history. However, its involvement in the First World War and in the Second World War damaged Britain's economic power, and a global wave of decolonisation led to the independence of most British colonies.
The UK is a constitutional monarchy and parliamentary democracy with three distinct jurisdictions: England and Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have their own governments and parliaments which control various devolved matters. A developed country with an advanced economy, the UK ranks amongst the largest economies by nominal GDP and is one of the world's largest exporters and importers. As a nuclear state with one of the highest defence budgets, the UK maintains one of the strongest militaries in Europe. British culture is globally influential, notably in the Anglosphere and the Commonwealth; its soft power influence is observable in the legal and political systems of many former colonies, and in its exports of language, literature, theatre, cinema, music, media, art and sport. A great power, the UK is part of numerous international organisations.

Title: High Speed 1
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_Speed_1
Excerpt: High Speed 1 (HS1), officially the Channel Tunnel Rail Link (CTRL), is a 109.9-kilometre (68.3-mile) high-speed railway linking London with the Channel Tunnel.
It is part of the line carrying international passenger traffic between the United Kingdom and mainland Europe; it also carries domestic passenger traffic to and from stations in Kent and east London, and continental European loading gauge freight traffic. From the Channel Tunnel, the line crosses the River Medway, and tunnels under the River Thames, terminating at London St Pancras International station on the north side of central London. It cost £6.84 billion to build and opened on 14 November 2007. Trains run at speeds of up to 300 km/h (190 mph) on HS1. There are intermediate stations at Stratford International in London, Ebbsfleet International in northern Kent and Ashford International in southern Kent.
International passenger services are provided by Eurostar International, with journey times from London St Pancras International to Paris Gare du Nord in 2 hours 15 minutes, and London St Pancras International to Brussels South/Bruxelles-Midi/Brussel Zuid in 1 hour 51 minutes. As of 2026, Eurostar uses a fleet of 8 Class 373 multi-system trains capable of 300 km/h (190 mph) and 17 Class 374 trains capable of 320 km/h (200 mph). Domestic high-speed commuter services serving intermediate stations and beyond began on 13 December 2009. The fleet of 29 Class 395 passenger trains reach speeds of 225 km/h (140 mph). DB Cargo UK run freight services on High Speed 1 using adapted Class 92 locomotives, enabling flat wagons carrying continental-size swap body containers to reach London for the first time.
The CTRL project saw new bridges and tunnels built, with a combined length nearly as long as the Channel Tunnel itself, and significant archaeological research undertaken. In 2002, the CTRL project was awarded the Major Project Award at the British Construction Industry Awards.

Title: France–United Kingdom relations
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/France%E2%80%93United_Kingdom_relations
Excerpt: The historical ties between France and the United Kingdom, and the countries preceding them, are long and complex, including conquest, wars, and alliances at various points in history. The Roman era saw both areas largely conquered by Rome, whose fortifications largely remain in both countries to this day. The Norman conquest of England in 1066, followed by the long domination of the Plantagenet dynasty of French origin, decisively shaped the English language and led to early conflict between the two nations.
Throughout the Middle Ages and into the Early Modern Period, France and England were often bitter rivals, with both nations' monarchs claiming control over France and France routinely allying against England with their other rival Scotland until the Union of the Crowns.  The historical rivalry between the two nations was seeded in the Capetian-Plantagenet rivalry over the French holdings of the Plantagenets in France.  After the French victory in the Hundred Years' War, England would never again establish a foothold in French territory.
Rivalry continued with many Anglo-French wars.  The last major conflict between the two was the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars (1793–1815), in which coalitions of European powers, financed by London, fought a series of wars against the French First Republic, the First French Empire and its client states, culminating in the defeat of Napoleon in 1815.  For several decades the peace was uneasy with fear of French invasion in 1859 and during the later rivalry for African colonies. Nevertheless, peace has generally prevailed since Napoleon I, and friendly ties between the two were formally established with the 1904 Entente Cordiale, and the British and French were allied against Germany in both World War I and World War II; in the latter conflict, British armies helped to liberate occupied France from Nazi Germany.
France and the UK were key partners in the West during the Cold War, consistently supporting liberal democracy and capitalism.  They were founding members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) defence alliance and are permanent members of the UN Security Council.  France has been a member of the European Union (EU), and its predecessors, since creation as the European Economic Community in 1957.  In the 1960s, relations deteriorated due to French President Charles de Gaulle's concerns over the special relationship between the UK and the United States.  He repeatedly vetoed British entry into the European Communities, the predecessor to the EU, and withdrew France from NATO integrated command, arguing the alliance was too heavily dominated by the United States.
In 1973, following de Gaulle's death, the UK entered the European Communities and in 2009 France returned to an active role in NATO under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy. Since then, the two countries have experienced a close relationship, especially on defence and foreign policy issues; however they disagreed on several other matters, most notably the direction of the European Union.  The United Kingdom left the European Union on 31 January 2020, following the referendum held on 23 June 2016, on Brexit.  Relations have since deteriorated, with disagreements surrounding Brexit and the English Channel migrant crisis.
In the 21st century, France and Britain, though they have chosen different paths and share many overlooked similarities (with roughly the same population, economic size, commitment to democracy, diplomatic clout, and as heads of former global empires.), are often still referred to as "historic rivals", with a perceived ever-lasting competition.  French author José-Alain Fralon characterised the relationship between the countries by describing the British as "our most dear enemies".
It is estimated that about 350,000 French people live in the UK, with approximately 200,000 Britons living in France. Both countries are members of the Council of Europe and NATO.
France is a European Union member and the United Kingdom is a former European Union member.

Title: Wind power in the United Kingdom
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wind_power_in_the_United_Kingdom
Excerpt: The United Kingdom is a strong location for wind power in Europe. The combination of long coastline, shallow water and strong winds make offshore wind unusually effective.
By 2025, the UK had over 12,000 wind turbines with a total installed capacity of 32 gigawatts (GW): 16 GW onshore and 16 GW offshore, the fifth largest capacity of any country. In that year, wind generated over 85 TWh of electricity, almost 30% of Great Britain's total generation. 
Wind power is the largest source of renewable energy in the UK, but at under 5% provides far less primary energy than oil or fossil gas. However, wind power generates electricity, which is far more powerful in terms of useful energy than the same amount of thermal primary energy. Polling of public opinion consistently shows strong support for wind power in the UK, with nearly three-quarters of the population agreeing with its use in 2022, even for people living near onshore wind turbines. 
The UK government has committed to a major expansion of offshore capacity to 60 GW by 2030, with 5 GW from floating wind; one reason for this is to improve energy security.