Title: Manhattan Project
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manhattan_Project
Excerpt: The Manhattan Project was a research and development program undertaken during World War II to produce the first nuclear weapons. It was led by the United States in collaboration with the United Kingdom and Canada. The Manhattan Project employed nearly 130,000 people at its peak and cost nearly US$2 billion (equivalent to about $28 billion in 2024).
From 1942 to 1946, the project was directed by Major General Leslie Groves of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Nuclear physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer was the director of the Los Alamos Laboratory that designed the bombs. The Army program was designated the Manhattan District, as its first headquarters were in Manhattan; the name superseded the initial codename, Development of Substitute Materials, for the entire project. The project absorbed its earlier British counterpart, Tube Alloys.
Over 80 percent of project cost was for building and operating the fissile material production plants. The project proposed both highly enriched uranium and plutonium as fuel for nuclear weapons. Enriched uranium was produced at the Clinton Engineer Works in Tennessee. Plutonium was produced in the world's first industrial-scale nuclear reactors at the Hanford Engineer Works in Washington. These sites were supported by dozens of other facilities across Canada, the US and the UK.
The weapons' designs were produced at the Los Alamos Laboratory (Project Y) in New Mexico, and resulted in two weapon designs used during the war: Little Boy (enriched uranium gun-type) and Fat Man (plutonium implosion). The Fat Man design was initially a low priority fallback option, as it was complex and required explosive lenses, but in 1944 it was confirmed that plutonium from Hanford was not suitable for a gun-type bomb because of the high proportion of plutonium-240. The first nuclear device ever detonated was an implosion-type bomb during the Trinity test, conducted at White Sands Proving Ground in New Mexico on 16 July 1945. The project was responsible for developing the specific means of delivering the weapons onto military targets, and for the use of the Little Boy and Fat Man bombs in the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945.
The project was also charged with gathering intelligence on the German nuclear weapon project. Through Operation Alsos, Manhattan Project personnel served in Europe, sometimes behind enemy lines, where they gathered nuclear materials and documents and rounded up German scientists. Despite the Manhattan Project's own emphasis on security, Soviet atomic spies penetrated the program.
In the immediate postwar years, the Manhattan Project conducted weapons testing at Bikini Atoll as part of Operation Crossroads, developed new weapons, promoted the development of the network of national laboratories, supported medical research into radiology, and laid the foundations for the nuclear navy. It maintained control over American atomic weapons research and production until the formation of the United States Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) in January 1947.

Title: Nuclear weapon design
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_weapon_design
Excerpt: Nuclear weapons design means the physical, chemical, and engineering arrangements that cause the physics package of a nuclear weapon to detonate. There are three existing basic design types:

Pure fission weapons are the simplest, least technically demanding, were the first nuclear weapons built, and so far the only type ever used in warfare, by the United States on Japan in World War II. Pure fission weapons have been the first type to be built by new nuclear powers, as a step toward building more advanced weapons.
Boosted fission weapons are fission weapons that use nuclear fusion reactions to generate high-energy neutrons that accelerate the fission chain reaction and increase its efficiency. Boosting can more than double the weapon's fission energy yield.
Staged thermonuclear weapons are arrangements of two or more "stages", most usually two, where the weapon derives a significant fraction of its energy from nuclear fusion (as well as, usually, nuclear fission). The first stage is typically a boosted fission weapon (except for the earliest thermonuclear weapons, which used a pure fission weapon). Its detonation causes it to shine intensely with X-rays, which illuminate and implode the second stage filled with fusion fuel. This initiates a sequence of events which results in a thermonuclear, or fusion, burn. High-energy neutrons from the fusion reactions can be (and usually are) used to produce an additional large number of fission reactions, which can double the already-large yield of the weapon. This process affords potential yields hundreds or thousands of times greater than those of fission weapons, and to develop weapons that are relatively compact for their yield. Around 80% of the nuclear weapons deployed in the world today are thermonuclear weapons, as their ratio of size and weight to their energy release allows them great flexibility in deployment on bombers and in missile warheads.
The United States pioneered most major nuclear weapon design innovations, but many were either subsequently developed independently by other nuclear states, or were obtained through espionage, gift, or sale.
In early news accounts, pure fission weapons were called atomic bombs or A-bombs and weapons involving fusion were called hydrogen bombs or H-bombs. Practitioners of nuclear policy, however, have favored the terms nuclear and thermonuclear, respectively.

Title: History of nuclear weapons
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_nuclear_weapons
Excerpt: Building on major scientific breakthroughs made during the 1930s, the United Kingdom began the world's first nuclear weapons research project, codenamed Tube Alloys, in 1941, during World War II. The United States, in collaboration with the United Kingdom and with the involvement of Canada, initiated the Manhattan Project the following year to build a weapon using nuclear fission. In August 1945, the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were conducted by the United States, with British consent, against Japan at the close of that war, standing to date as the only use of nuclear weapons in hostilities.
The Soviet Union started development shortly after with their own atomic bomb project, and not long after, both countries were developing even more powerful fusion weapons known as hydrogen bombs. Britain and France built their own systems in the 1950s, and the number of states with nuclear capabilities has gradually grown larger in the decades since.
A nuclear weapon, also known as an atomic bomb, possesses enormous destructive power from nuclear fission, or a combination of fission and fusion reactions.

Title: Soviet atomic bomb project
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soviet_atomic_bomb_project
Excerpt: The Soviet atomic bomb project was authorized by Joseph Stalin in the Soviet Union to develop nuclear weapons during and after World War II.
Physicist Georgy Flyorov, suspecting a Western Allied nuclear program, urged Stalin to start research in 1942. Early efforts were made at Laboratory No. 2 in Moscow, led by Igor Kurchatov, and by Soviet-sympathizing atomic spies in the US Manhattan Project. Subsequent efforts involved plutonium production at Mayak in Chelyabinsk and weapon research and assembly at KB-11 in Sarov.
After Stalin learned of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the nuclear program was accelerated through intelligence gathering on the US and German nuclear weapon programs. Espionage coups, especially via Klaus Fuchs and David Greenglass, included detailed descriptions of the implosion-type Fat Man bomb and plutonium production. In the final months of the war, the Soviet "Russian Alsos" task force competed against the Western Allies' Alsos Mission to capture German and Austrian nuclear scientists and material, including refined uranium and cyclotrons. The Soviet project utilized East German industry for further uranium mining, refinement, and instrument manufacture. Lavrentiy Beria was placed in charge of the atomic project, and the replication of the Fat Man bomb was prioritized.
The Manhattan Project had established a monopoly on the global uranium market. The Soviet project relied on SAG Wismut in East Germany and the development of the Taboshar mine in Tajikistan. Domestic large-scale production of high purity graphite and high purity uranium metal, to construct plutonium production reactors, was a significant challenge.
In late 1946, F-1, the first nuclear reactor outside North America, achieved criticality at Laboratory No. 2. In mid-1948, the A-1 plutonium production reactor became operational at the Mayak site, and in mid-1949, the first plutonium metal was separated. The first nuclear weapon was assembled at the KB-11 design bureau, led by Yulii Khariton, in the closed city of Arzamas-16 (Sarov).
On 29 August 1949, the Soviet Union secretly conducted its first weapon test, RDS-1, at the Semipalatinsk Test Site of the Kazakh SSR. Simultaneously, project scientists had been developing conceptual thermonuclear weapons. The US detection of the test, via anticipatory atmospheric fallout monitoring, led to a US crash program to develop thermonuclear weapons, opening of the nuclear arms race of the Cold War.
Boosted fission and multi-stage thermonuclear weapons were developed during the 1950s, testing expanded to Novaya Zemlya and Kapustin Yar, and fissile material production sites grew, including the invention of the gas centrifuge. In 1961 and 1962 the program conducted the five most powerful nuclear tests ever; the 1963 Partial Test Ban Treaty moved Soviet nuclear testing underground. The program created demand for nuclear weapons delivery, command and control, and early warning, influencing the Soviet space program. Soviet nuclear weapons played a major role in the Cold War, including the Cuban Missile Crisis, and the Sino-Soviet border conflict.

Title: Thermonuclear weapon
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermonuclear_weapon
Excerpt: A thermonuclear weapon, fusion weapon or hydrogen bomb (H-bomb) is a second-generation nuclear weapon, using nuclear fusion. The most destructive weapons ever created, their yields typically exceed first-generation nuclear weapons by twenty times, with far lower mass and volume requirements. Characteristics of fusion reactions can make possible the use of non-fissile depleted uranium as the weapon's main fuel, thus allowing more efficient use of scarce fissile material. Its multi-stage design is distinct from the usage of fusion in simpler boosted fission weapons. The first full-scale thermonuclear test (Ivy Mike) was carried out by the United States in 1952, and the concept has since been employed by at least the five NPT-recognized nuclear-weapon states: the United States, Russia, the United Kingdom, China, and France.
The design of all thermonuclear weapons is believed to be the Teller–Ulam configuration. This relies on radiation implosion, in which X-rays from detonation of the primary stage, a fission bomb, are channelled to compress a separate fusion secondary stage containing thermonuclear fuel, primarily lithium-6 deuteride. During detonation, neutrons convert lithium-6 to helium-4 plus tritium. The heavy isotopes of hydrogen, deuterium and tritium, then undergo a reaction that releases energy and neutrons. For this reason, thermonuclear weapons are often colloquially called hydrogen bombs or H-bombs.
Additionally, most weapons use a natural or depleted uranium tamper and case. This undergoes fast fission from fast fusion neutrons and is the main contribution to the total yield and radioactive fission product fallout.
Thermonuclear weapons were thought possible in 1941 and were the subject of basic research during the Manhattan Project. The first Soviet nuclear test triggered an all-out pursuit of a thermonuclear weapon in the US, despite initial opposition by many former Manhattan Project scientists. The Teller-Ulam configuration, named for its chief contributors, Edward Teller and Stanisław Ulam, was outlined in 1951, with contribution from John von Neumann. Operation Greenhouse investigated thermonuclear reactions before the full-scale Mike test.
Multi-stage devices were later developed and tested, largely independently, by the Soviet Union (1955), the United Kingdom (1957), China (1966), and France (1968). There is not enough public information to determine whether India, Israel, or North Korea possess multi-stage weapons. Pakistan is not considered to have developed them. After the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan became the first and only countries to relinquish their thermonuclear weapons, although these had never left the operational control of Russian forces. Following the 1996 Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, most countries with thermonuclear weapons maintain their stockpiles and expertise using computer simulations, hydrodynamic testing, warhead surveillance, and inertial confinement fusion experiments.

Thermonuclear weapons are the only artificial source of explosions above one megaton TNT. The Tsar Bomba was the most powerful bomb ever detonated at 50 megatons of TNT (210 PJ), despite the uranium tamper being replaced with lead to reduce radioactive fallout. As they are the most efficient design for yields above 50 kilotons of TNT (210 TJ), and with decreased relevance of tactical nuclear weapons, virtually all nuclear weapons deployed by the five recognized nuclear-weapons states today are thermonuclear. Their development dominated the Cold War's nuclear arms race. Their destructiveness and ability to miniaturize high yields, such as in MIRV warheads, defines nuclear deterrence and mutual assured destruction. Extensions of thermonuclear weapon design include clean bombs with marginal fallout and neutron bombs with enhanced penetrating radiation. Nonetheless, most thermonuclear weapons designed, including all current US and UK nuclear warheads, derive most of their energy from fast fission, causing high fallout.