Title: Zionism
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zionism
Excerpt: Zionism is an ethnic nationalist movement that emerged in late 19th-century Europe to establish and support a Jewish homeland through colonization in the region of Palestine, which roughly corresponds to the Land of Israel in Judaism—itself central to Jewish history. Zionists wanted to create a Jewish state in Palestine with as much land, as many Jews, and as few Palestinian Arabs as possible. Zionism was the main force behind the creation of the State of Israel in 1948, and remains the country's dominant ideology today.
Zionism initially emerged in Central and Eastern Europe as a secular nationalist movement in the late 19th century, in reaction to new waves of antisemitism and in response to the Haskalah, or Jewish Enlightenment. By the beginning of the 20th century, the Zionist movement, led by Theodor Herzl, associated this national revival with lands in Palestine, a region then under Ottoman rule. The arrival of Zionist settlers in Palestine during this period is widely seen as marking the start of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. The Zionist claim to Palestine was based on the notion that the Jews' historical right to the land outweighed that of the Arabs.
In the 1917 Balfour Declaration, Britain declared its support for "the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people". The 1922 Mandate for Palestine placed Britain in control of Palestine until 1948, when the State of Israel declared its independence and war broke out. During the war, Israel expanded its territory to control over 78% of former Mandatory Palestine. After the 1948 Palestinian expulsion and flight, an estimated 160,000 of 870,000 Palestinians in the territory remained, forming a Palestinian minority in Israel.
Zionist views have varied over time and are not uniform, resulting in a variety of types of Zionism. The Zionist mainstream has historically included Liberal, Labor, Revisionist, and Cultural Zionism, while groups like Brit Shalom and Ihud have been dissident factions within the movement. Religious Zionism is a variant that combines secular nationalism and religious conservatism. Advocates of Zionism have viewed it as a national liberation movement for the repatriation of an indigenous people (who were subject to persecution and share a national identity through national consciousness), to the homeland of their ancestors. Opponents of Zionism often characterize it as a supremacist, colonialist, or racist ideology, or as a settler colonialist movement.

Title: Land-use planning
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Land-use_planning
Excerpt: Land use planning or land-use regulation is the process of regulating the use of land by a central authority. Usually, this is done to promote more desirable social and environmental outcomes as well as a more efficient use of resources. More specifically, the goals of modern land use planning often include environmental conservation, restraint of urban sprawl, minimization of transport costs, prevention of land use conflicts, and a reduction in exposure to pollutants. In the pursuit of these goals, planners assume that regulating the use of land will change the patterns of human behavior, and that these changes are beneficial. The first assumption, that regulating land use changes the patterns of human behavior is widely accepted. However, the second assumption – that these changes are beneficial – is contested, and depends on the location and regulations being discussed.
In urban planning, land use planning seeks to order and regulate land use in an efficient and ethical way, thus preventing land use conflicts. Governments use land use planning to manage the development of land within their jurisdictions. In doing so, the governmental unit can plan for the needs of the community while safeguarding natural resources. To this end, it is the systematic assessment of land and water potential, alternatives for land use, and economic and social conditions in order to select and adopt the best land use options. Often one element of a comprehensive plan, a land use plan provides a vision for the future possibilities of development in neighborhoods, districts, cities, or any defined planning area.
In the United States, the terms land use planning, regional planning, urban planning, and urban design are often used interchangeably, and will depend on the state, county, and/or project in question. Despite confusing nomenclature, the essential function of land use planning remains the same whatever term is applied. The Canadian Institute of Planners offers a definition that land use planning means the scientific, aesthetic, and orderly disposition of land, resources, facilities and services with a view to securing the physical, economic and social efficiency, health and well-being of urban and rural communities. The American Planning Association states that the goal of land use planning is to further the welfare of people and their communities by creating convenient, equitable, healthful, efficient, and attractive environments for present and future generations. Land-use planning in England and Wales is founded on the Town and Country Planning Act 1947, with comparable legislation applicable in Scotland and Northern Ireland.

Title: List of Latin phrases (full)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Latin_phrases_(full)
Excerpt: This article lists direct English translations of common Latin phrases. Some of the phrases are themselves translations of Greek phrases.
This list is an automatically updated combination of the twenty lists of Latin phrases starting by a given letter.

Title: India–United States relations
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/India%E2%80%93United_States_relations
Excerpt: The Republic of India and the United States established diplomatic relations in 1947 following Indian independence. Relations between the two countries have developed in areas including defense, trade, technology, education and energy. The two countries have also cooperated on regional and international issues, while differences have remained over trade, energy policy and other matters.
In early 2026, energy policy became a significant issue in India–United States relations. The United States sought changes to India's purchases of Russian oil, while India considered the economic and logistical implications of changing its sources of crude oil.
The United States and India announced a trade agreement in February 2026. President Donald Trump said that India had agreed to stop purchasing Russian oil and increase imports from the United States and potentially Venezuela, alongside reductions in tariffs on Indian goods. Indian officials said that energy security and diversification remained priorities and that refiners would require time to complete previously arranged Russian oil shipments.
Reuters reported that India's imports of Russian oil had declined in January 2026 amid the trade negotiations, while Indian energy officials indicated that the country was broadening its sources of crude oil.

Title: Robert McNamara as Secretary of Defense
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_McNamara_as_Secretary_of_Defense
Excerpt: Robert McNamara served as the eighth United States secretary of defense from 1961 to 1968 under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson at the height of the Cold War. He remains the longest-serving secretary of defense, having remained in office over seven years. He played a major role in promoting the U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War. McNamara was responsible for the institution of systems analysis in public policy, which developed into the discipline known today as policy analysis.
Many of his views on the military, including negative views, were formed during his U.S. Army Air Force service in World War II under General Curtis LeMay.