Title: Mainframe computer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mainframe_computer
Excerpt: A mainframe computer, informally called a mainframe, maxicomputer, or big iron, is a computer used primarily by large organizations for critical applications like bulk data processing for tasks such as censuses, industry and consumer statistics, enterprise resource planning, and large-scale transaction processing. A mainframe computer is large but not as large as a supercomputer and has more processing power than some other classes of computers, such as minicomputers, workstations, and personal computers. Most large-scale computer-system architectures were established in the 1960s, but they continue to evolve. Mainframe computers are often used as servers.
The term mainframe was derived from the large cabinet, called a main frame, that housed the central processing unit and main memory of early computers. Later, the term mainframe was used to distinguish high-end commercial computers from less powerful machines.

Title: Software bug
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_bug
Excerpt: A software bug is a defect (bug) in computer software. A computer program with many or serious bugs may be described as buggy.
The effects of a software bug range from minor (such as a misspelled word in the user interface) to severe (such as frequent crashing).
In 2002, a study commissioned by the US Department of Commerce's National Institute of Standards and Technology concluded that "software bugs, or errors, are so prevalent and so detrimental that they cost the US economy an estimated $59 billion annually, or about 0.6 percent of the gross domestic product".
Since the 1950s, some computer systems have been designed to detect or auto-correct various software errors during operations.

Title: Santa Cruz Operation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santa_Cruz_Operation
Excerpt: The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc. (usually known as SCO, pronounced either as individual letters or as a word) was an American software company, based in Santa Cruz, California, that was best known for selling three Unix operating system variants for Intel x86 processors: Xenix, SCO UNIX (later known as SCO OpenDesktop and SCO OpenServer), and UnixWare.
SCO was founded in 1979 by Larry Michels and his son Doug Michels and began as a consulting and Unix porting company.  An early involvement with Microsoft led to SCO making a product out of Xenix on Intel-based PCs.  The fundamental insight that led to SCO's success was that there was a large market for a standard, "open systems" operating system on commodity microprocessor hardware that would give business applications computing power and throughput that previously was only possible with considerably more expensive minicomputers.  SCO built a large community of value-added resellers that would eventually become 15,000 strong and many of its sales to small and medium-sized businesses went through those resellers.  This community was exemplified by the annual SCO Forum conference, held in a scenic setting that reflected the company's Santa Cruz culture.  SCO also had corporate customers in the replicated sites space, where a SCO-based system was deployed in each of a retail or restaurant chain's stores.
Despite seeing rapid growth in terms of revenues, SCO tended to have high research and development costs and was never consistently profitable either before or after going public in 1993.  SCO bought two former Xenix outfits, the Software Products Group within Logica in 1986 and HCR Corporation in 1990, thereby gaining development offices in Watford, England and Toronto, Canada.  During the mid-1990s, SCO acquired two further UK companies, IXI Limited in Cambridge and Visionware in Leeds, which led to a suite of client-to-Unix integration products and then the Tarantella product line.  SCO's operating system technology moved from Xenix to System V Release 3 as reflected by the products SCO Open Desktop and SCO OpenServer.  In 1995, SCO bought the System V Release 4 and UnixWare business from Novell and, in collaboration with several hardware partners, the New Jersey development office it gained in the deal led a series of enhancements to the UnixWare product aimed at the high-end enterprise and data center spaces.
Beginning in the late 1990s, SCO faced increasingly severe competitive pressure, on one side from Microsoft's Windows NT and its successors and on the other side from the free and open source Linux.  In 2001, the Santa Cruz Operation sold its rights to Unix and its Unix divisions to Caldera Systems.  After that the corporation retained only its Tarantella product line, and changed its name to Tarantella, Inc.  Caldera Systems became Caldera International and then changed its name to The SCO Group, which has created some confusion between the two companies. The company described here is the original Santa Cruz Operation. Although generally referred to simply as "SCO" up to 2001, it is now sometimes referred to as "old SCO", "Santa Cruz", or "SCO Classic" to distinguish it from "The SCO Group" to whom the U.S. trademark "SCO" was transferred.

Title: Year 2000 problem
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2000_problem
Excerpt: The Year 2000 problem (Y2K) was the potential for computer errors on the Gregorian calendar related to the formatting and storage of calendar data for dates in and after the year 2000. Many programs represented four-digit years with only the final two digits, e.g. 1985 as 85, making the year 2000 indistinguishable from 1900. Computer systems' inability to distinguish dates correctly had the potential to bring down worldwide infrastructures for computer-reliant industries.
In the years leading up to the turn of the millennium, the public gradually became aware of the "Y2K scare", and individual companies predicted the global damage caused by the bug would require anything between $400 billion and $600 billion to rectify. A lack of clarity regarding the potential dangers of the bug led some to stock up on food, water, and firearms, purchase backup generators, and withdraw large sums of money in anticipation of a computer-induced apocalypse.
Contrary to published expectations, few major errors occurred in 2000. Supporters of the Y2K remediation effort argued that that was primarily due to the pre-emptive action of many computer programmers and information technology experts. Companies and organizations in some countries, but not all, had checked, fixed, and upgraded their computer systems to address the problem. U.S. President Bill Clinton, who organized efforts to minimize the damage in the United States, labelled Y2K as "the first challenge of the 21st century successfully met", and retrospectives on the event typically commend the programmers who worked to avert the anticipated disaster.
Critics argued that even in countries where very little had been done to ready software, problems were minimal. The same was true in sectors such as schools and small businesses, where compliance with Y2K policies was inconsistent at best.

Title: 2024 CrowdStrike-related IT outages
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_CrowdStrike-related_IT_outages
Excerpt: On 19 July 2024, the American cybersecurity company CrowdStrike distributed a faulty update to its Falcon Sensor security software that caused widespread problems with Microsoft Windows computers running the software. As a result, roughly 8.5 million systems crashed and were unable to properly restart in what has been called the largest outage in the history of information technology and "historic in scale".
The outage disrupted daily life, businesses, and governments around the world. Many industries were affected—airlines, airports, banks, hotels, hospitals, manufacturing, stock markets, broadcasting, gas stations, retail stores, and governmental services, such as emergency services and websites. The worldwide financial damage has been estimated to be tens of billions.
Within hours, the error was discovered and a fix was released, but because many affected computers had to be fixed manually, outages continued to linger on many services.