Title: Global Positioning System
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_Positioning_System
Excerpt: The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a satellite-based hyperbolic navigation system owned by the United States Space Force and operated by Mission Delta 31. It is one of the global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) that provide geolocation and time information to a GPS receiver anywhere on or near the Earth where signal quality permits. It does not require the user to transmit any data, and operates independently of any telephone or Internet reception, though these technologies can enhance the usefulness of the GPS positioning information. It provides critical positioning capabilities to military, civil, and commercial users around the world. Although the United States government created, controls, and maintains GPS, it is freely accessible to anyone with a GPS receiver.

Title: Speed of light
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speed_of_light
Excerpt: The speed of light is the speed of electromagnetic waves. Light travels at slower speed inside materials like glass or water; its highest speed is in a vacuum. The speed of light in vacuum is a universal physical constant denoted c (in ISO and IEC standards 
  
    
      
        
          c
          
            0
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle c_{0}}
  
),  exactly equal to 299792458 m⋅s−1. It is exact because, by international agreement, a metre is defined as the length of the path travelled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1⁄299792458 second. The value 299,792,458 metres per second is approximately 1 billion kilometres per hour; 700 million miles per hour. For other approximations of c, valid for various units and size scales see the infobox. The shorter form, speed of light, means speed of light in vacuum in any context where the vacuum is implied.
All forms of electromagnetic radiation, including visible light, travel in vacuum at the speed c as do massless particles and field perturbations, such as gravitational waves. The speed of light in vacuum is the same for all observers, no matter their relative velocity. As a result, massless particles and waves travel at c in a vacuum regardless of the motion of the source or the inertial reference frame of the observer. The speed of light in vacuum is the upper limit for the speed at which information, matter, or energy can travel through space. Particles with nonzero rest mass can be accelerated to approach c but can never reach it, regardless of the frame of reference in which their speed is measured.
For long distances and sensitive measurements, the finite speed of light has noticeable effects. Much starlight viewed on Earth is from the distant past, allowing humans to study the history of the universe by viewing distant objects. When communicating with distant space probes, it can take hours for signals to travel. In computing, the speed of light fixes the ultimate minimum communication delay. The speed of light in vacuum can be used in time of flight measurements to measure large distances to extremely high precision.
The speed at which light propagates through transparent materials, such as glass or air, is less than c; similarly, the speed of electromagnetic waves around wire cables (the speed of electricity) is slower than c. The ratio between c and the speed v at which light travels in a material is called the refractive index n of the material (n = ⁠c/v⁠). For example, for visible light, the refractive index of glass is typically around 1.5, meaning that light in glass travels at ⁠c/1.5⁠ ≈ 200000 km/s (124000 mi/s); the refractive index of air for visible light is about 1.0003, so the speed of light in air is about 90 km/s (56 mi/s) slower than c.
In the context of relativity, luminal speed may be used. In some cases, objects or waves may appear to travel faster than light, also called superluminal speed. Simplistic calculations of the speed of distant galaxies due to the expansion of the universe appear to exceed the speed of light, but only local velocity can be defined uniquely.
Ole Rømer first demonstrated that light does not travel instantaneously by studying the apparent motion of Jupiter's moon Io. In an 1865 paper, James Clerk Maxwell proposed that light was an electromagnetic wave and, therefore, travelled at speed c. Albert Einstein postulated that the speed of light c with respect to any inertial frame of reference is a constant and is independent of the motion of the light source. He explored the consequences of that postulate by deriving the theory of relativity, and so showed that the parameter c had relevance outside of the context of light and electromagnetism. In the theory of relativity, c interrelates space and time and appears in the famous mass–energy equivalence, E = mc2.

Title: Time
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time
Excerpt: Time is the continuous progression of existence that occurs in an apparently irreversible succession from the past, through the present, and into the future. Time dictates all forms of action, age, and causality, being a component quantity of various measurements used to sequence events, to compare the duration of events or the intervals between them, and to quantify rates of change of quantities in material reality or in conscious experience. Time is often referred to as the fourth dimension and the temporal dimension, in addition to the three spatial dimensions.
Time is primarily measured in linear spans or periods, ordered from shortest to longest. Practical, human-scale measurements of time are performed using clocks and calendars, reflecting a 24-hour day collected into a 365-day year linked to the astronomical motion of the Earth. Scientific measurements of time instead vary from Planck time at the shortest to billions of years at the longest. Measurable time is believed to have effectively begun with the Big Bang 13.8 billion years ago, encompassed by the chronology of the universe. Modern physics understands time to be inextricable from space within the concept of spacetime described by general relativity. Time can therefore be dilated by velocity and matter to pass faster or slower for an external observer, though this is considered negligible outside of extreme conditions, namely relativistic speeds or the gravitational pulls of black holes.
Throughout history, time has been an important subject of study in religion, philosophy, and science. Temporal measurement has occupied scientists and technologists, and has been a prime motivation in navigation and astronomy. Time is also of significant social importance, having economic value ("time is money") as well as personal value, due to an awareness of the limited time in each day ("carpe diem") and in human life spans.

Title: Error analysis for the Global Positioning System
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Error_analysis_for_the_Global_Positioning_System
Excerpt: The error analysis for the Global Positioning System is important for understanding how GPS works, and for knowing what magnitude of error should be expected. The GPS makes corrections for receiver clock errors and other effects but there are still residual errors which are not corrected. GPS receiver position is computed based on data received from the satellites. Errors depend on geometric dilution of precision and the sources listed in the table below.

Title: Glossary of aerospace engineering
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glossary_of_aerospace_engineering
Excerpt: This glossary of aerospace engineering terms pertains specifically to aerospace engineering, its sub-disciplines, and related fields including aviation and aeronautics. For a broad overview of engineering, see glossary of engineering.