Title: Industrial Revolution
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Industrial_Revolution
Excerpt: The Industrial Revolution, sometimes called the First Industrial Revolution in contrast to the subsequent Second Industrial Revolution, was a transitional period of the global economy toward more widespread, efficient and stable manufacturing processes, succeeding the Second Agricultural Revolution. Beginning in Great Britain around 1760, the Industrial Revolution had spread to continental Europe and the United States by about 1840. Economic historians agree that the onset of the Industrial Revolution is the most important event in human history, comparable only to the adoption of agriculture with respect to material advancement.
This transition included going from hand production methods to machines; new chemical manufacturing and iron production processes; the increasing use of water power and steam power; the development of machine tools; and rise of the mechanised factory system. Output greatly increased, and the result was an unprecedented rise in population and population growth. Many technological and architectural innovations were British. By the mid-18th century, Britain was the leading commercial nation, with GDP per capita considerably over the world average. The textile industry was the first to use modern production methods, and textiles became the dominant industry in terms of employment, value of output, and capital invested. 
The precise start and end of the Industrial Revolution is debated among historians, as is the pace of economic and social changes. Rapid adoption of mechanized textiles spinning occurred in Britain in the 1780s, and high rates of growth in steam power and iron production occurred after 1800. Mechanised textile production spread from Britain to continental Europe and the US in the early 19th century.
A recession occurred from the late 1830s when the adoption of the Industrial Revolution's early innovations, such as mechanised spinning and weaving, slowed as markets matured despite increased adoption of locomotives, steamships, and hot blast iron smelting. New technologies such as the electrical telegraph, widely introduced in the 1840s in the UK and US, were not sufficient to drive high rates of growth. Rapid growth reoccurred after 1870, springing from new innovations in the Second Industrial Revolution. These included steel-making processes, mass production, assembly lines, electrical grid systems, large-scale manufacture of machine tools, and use of advanced machinery in steam-powered factories.
The Industrial Revolution influenced almost every aspect of life. In particular, average income and population began to exhibit unprecedented sustained growth, with the standard of living improving for most in the Western world, though others have said it did not begin to improve meaningfully until the 20th century. Prior to the Industrial Revolution, most manufacturing occurred in China and India; after the Industrial Revolution, most manufacturing took place in North America and Western Europe.

Title: Subprime mortgage crisis
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subprime_mortgage_crisis
Excerpt: The American subprime mortgage crisis was a multinational financial crisis that occurred between 2007 and 2010, contributing to the 2008 financial crisis. It led to a severe economic recession, with millions becoming unemployed and many businesses going bankrupt. The U.S. government intervened with a series of measures to stabilize the financial system, including the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA).
The collapse of the 2000s United States housing bubble and high interest rates led to unprecedented numbers of borrowers missing mortgage repayments and becoming delinquent. This ultimately led to mass foreclosures and the devaluation of housing-related securities. The housing bubble preceding the crisis was financed with mortgage-backed securities (MBSes) and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), which initially offered higher interest rates (i.e., better returns) than government securities, along with attractive risk ratings from rating agencies. Despite being highly rated, most of these financial instruments were made up of high-risk subprime mortgages.
While elements of the crisis first became more visible during 2007, several major financial institutions collapsed in late 2008, with significant disruption in the flow of credit to businesses and consumers and the onset of a severe global recession. Most notably, Lehman Brothers, a major mortgage lender, filed for bankruptcy in September 2008. There were many causes of the crisis, with commentators assigning different levels of blame to financial institutions, regulators, credit agencies, government housing policies, and consumers, among others. Two proximate causes were the rise in subprime lending and the increase in housing speculation. Investors, even those with "prime", or low-risk, credit ratings, were much more likely to default than non-investors when prices fell. These changes were part of a broader trend of lowered lending standards and higher-risk mortgage products, which contributed to U.S. households becoming increasingly indebted.
The crisis had severe, long-lasting consequences for the U.S. and European economies. The U.S. entered a deep recession, with nearly 9 million jobs lost during 2008 and 2009, roughly 6% of the workforce. The number of jobs did not return to the December 2007 pre-crisis peak until May 2014. U.S. household net worth declined by nearly $13 trillion (20%) from its Q2 2007 pre-crisis peak, recovering by Q4 2012. U.S. housing prices fell nearly 30% on average and the U.S. stock market fell approximately 50% by early 2009, with stocks regaining their December 2007 level during September 2012. One estimate of lost output and income from the crisis comes to "at least 40% of 2007 gross domestic product". Europe also continued to struggle with its own economic crisis, with elevated unemployment and severe banking impairments estimated at €940 billion between 2008 and 2012. As of January 2018, U.S. bailout funds had been fully recovered by the government, when interest on loans is taken into consideration. A total of $626B was invested, loaned, or granted due to various bailout measures, while $390B had been returned to the Treasury. The Treasury had earned another $323B in interest on bailout loans, resulting in a $109B profit as of January 2021.

Title: Causes of the 2000s United States housing bubble
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Causes_of_the_2000s_United_States_housing_bubble
Excerpt: Observers and analysts have attributed the reasons for the 2001–2006 housing bubble and its 2007–10 collapse in the United States to "everyone from home buyers to Wall Street, mortgage brokers to Alan Greenspan". Other factors that are named include "Mortgage underwriters, investment banks, rating agencies, and investors", "low mortgage interest rates, low short-term interest rates, relaxed standards for mortgage loans, and irrational exuberance" Politicians in both the Democratic and Republican political parties have been cited for "pushing to keep derivatives unregulated" and "with rare exceptions" giving Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac "unwavering support".
According to a 2018 review of existing evidence, "inflated house-price expectations across the economy played a central role in driving both the demand for and the supply of mortgage credit before the crisis". The review concluded that the crisis was not driven by reckless lending by lower classes, but rather greater mortgage lending across all income groups.

Title: Chinese hyperinflation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_hyperinflation
Excerpt: The Chinese hyperinflation was the phenomenon of extreme inflation that emerged in China during the late 1930s, extended to Taiwan after the Japanese surrender in 1945, and concluded in the early 1950s.
After a significant speculative outflow of China's physical silver to the United States of America due to the Roosevelt administration's Silver Purchase Act of 1934 resulted in insufficient silver reserves relative to notes issued, the Nationalist government abandoned the traditional silver standard and introduced its own paper currency, the Chinese National Currency (CNC), in the 1935 currency reform. However, this currency was issued without sufficient credit or reserve backing. The Nationalist government's reliance on deficit spending led to unchecked monetary expansion, resulting in rapid currency depreciation. This situation was aggravated by the financial burden of the Second Sino-Japanese War and the subsequent phase of the Chinese Civil War. To control the price hike, the government attempted to introduce a new currency, namely the Chinese gold yuan (GY) in 1948, along with price and wage controls. Ultimately, they proved infeasible due to extensive corruption and administrative failures.
The hyperinflation eroded popular support for the Nationalists across China, contributing to the collapse of the Republic of China on the Mainland. In contrast, the Communists' more prudent economic control aided their rise to power. In Taiwan, the Nationalists eventually restored financial stability using the Chinese gold taken to the island during their retreat from the mainland, as well as owing to American financial support.